                             Mary        Shelley's


     Frankenstein
                    Scl'l!l!l'I Story By Stepli Lady & James V. Hart

                             Screenplay by Steph.. Lady




Based On Th® Novel
Fr,mkensu:i@; Or, Tbe Mw:lern Promethem,
By Miu·y Woolstonecraft Slii!!lli!!Y
First Pubiislil!d in l8lli


First Draft

For American Zoetrope
August 27. 1992
    FADE 12'1:
•   EXT - ARCTIC WASTELA.:--;D - TWILIGHT
    Over an unearthly land of ice and coid. a SYMPHONY piays the eerie and
    disturbing opening strains of Alexander Scriabin's "Prometheus Poem",
    Pellets of snow BLOW like broken glass over the frozen expanse. Sot a
    bird. no living thing can be seen in land of the midnight sun -- the ianci ot
    eternal twilight.

    EXT - GLACIER - TWILIGHT
    An icy fog hangs. THE CREATL"RE emerges from it: an apparition of a
    man. His face -- unseen. Hair hangs over his shoulders: his right arm is
    held stiff to his side. injured or deformed. He wears no furs -- a satchel 1s
    strapped to his back.

    He's waiting for something -- listening.

    EXT - THE ARCTIC SEA - Di;_ Y
    The Russian sailing vessel "Alexander Nevsky"; a wooden stick fast in a
    field of solid. unyielding ice. Both British and Russian imperial f1ags f1y,

    SlJPER: "Arctic Sea, !839~,

    E.XT - THE NEVSKY - TWILIGHT
    A game Russian crew works down on the ice to free the icebound ship,
    Bundled in fur coats to ward off the bitter wind, they stoke fires around
    the hull to melt the ice -- others chop with pick and axe.

    GRJGORI STEFANICH stands watch high above. He stamps his feet.
    cursing softly at the snow blowing in his face. His moustache is frosted
    white. He takes a warming swallow from a smail silver flask. At that
    moment something catches his eye. He reaches for his brass telescope.

    POV TELESCOPE - CONTINl'lNG ACTION
    The huge being walks slowly across the frozen expanse and disappears
                                      -
    behind a jagged crush of ice. Gri!?ori takes a breath of frioht.
                                                                ~
Oil lamps glow. The excited Grigori reiates his sighting to C..\PT ..l..J.',
WALTON .. a young and handsome English explorer whose ambition
borders on oosession and FIRST MATE IVA.'iOVSKY-· an oversized
Russian with a great beard. born and bred to the challenge of the 'iorth.

                            GRIGORI
              Not a man Capra.in. but a devil! He is bearing
              :--lorth.

Walton smiles in amused toleration.

                          IVANOV SKY
              How much vodka?

                            GRIGORI
             On the grave of my father, one swallow. When
             I saw the demon!
                                WALTON
             That's all, man.

Grigori Stepanich leaves, still upset.

                             IVANOV SKY
             Grigori Stepanich is a good man. Captain.

                             WALTON
             I've no doubt. Don't let this devil taik get
             started.

!vanovsky acknowledges in Russian. Walton puts his compass to the chart.

                              WALTON
             Two years and my fortune spent! Damn it alL
             we're the first men to set eyes on this waste .
             land. No man has ever come this close to the
             bloody pole!

EXT· ICE FLOES; POV CREATl:RE. TWILIGHT

His wool COAT FLAPS in the wind. In the distance. the Sevskv remains
icebound. Crystalline snow blows in mosaics of chaos on the f~zen ocean.




                                                        l CONTI:Sl.:ED 1
    ..\ POL ..\R BE..'>.R arracks rhe Crearure from oehir.a with sudden :e,oc::\
    A primal battle erupts in rile ;ce crags 0.C. Snar\ing echO!S across :::e
    Arcric ptain. Then •· siience.
    Behind an ice crag we see the Polar Bear •· dead. His adversary. the
    Creature. walks slowiy on into the fog.

    EXT . ICE FLOES · TWILIGHT
    Four f;'\1'"NCIT Hl::-,rrERS ( Eskimo) watch from a ridge. They have see:1
    the battle on the ice. The YOCNG HC~TER speaks to his grandfathe, rhe
    SH..-\.\iiAN. The Creature passes nearby in the fog. ( I>i~CIT. E~GLlSH
    S l:BTITLES )
                                  SHA.:ViA.N
                  Do not look in his eyes, but like so. To look in
                  the eyes of a Ghost Spirit is death my sons.

    He squints through his nearly closed fingers at the Creature. The others
    follow his example.
                                  SECOND HU:-,TER
                  It wears no furs!
t                                 YOUNG Ht:i"4TER
                  Did the great canoe bring the Ghost Spirit
                  Grandfather?

                                   SHAMAN
                  They are from the Underworld. We must mark
                  this place so our people never return.

     The Creature disappears in the fog once more.

     E.XT ~ DECK OF ~SKY . DAY
     Grigori holds two Russian WOLFHOC.'iDS. both barking furiously.

                                 GRIGORI
                             (Russian - subtitled)
                  What do ,vou hear mv, sweethearts?
     Several crew members gather to peer into the twilight. !vanovskv ioins


•
     him. They gaze out on the the wall of ice that blocks the passage· ~orth .



                                                              (CON; I.'iCED
The lookout sights something.

                           LOOKOCT
                  Off the starboard bow:

Walton appears from the cabin. !vanovsky hanos him the telescope

EXT - POV TELESCOPE · DAY
Walton focuses on a DOG SLED stranded on a floating chunk of ice ..\
\.{AN can be seen prostrate under fur blankets.

RESU~E: NEVSKY
                          GRIGORI
             The demon. Captain?

                          WALTON
             Nonsense! There's flesh and blood out there.
             Incredible!
Walton fires a signal shot from his pistol. The shots ECHO in the Arcric
stillness.
EXT - ICE FLOE BELOW THE NEVSKY - LATER

The crew pulls the sled up beside the icebound ship by grappling lines.
The SLED DOGS are all dead. The passenger. VICTOR
FR.Ai.'IKE:'\!STEIN,'is more frost than flesh as he wearily salutes the men
above him.

Ivanovsky throws a sling overboard.

                           WALTON
             Grab a hold man!

Frankenstein motions for them to halt. Emaciated. he still maintains
formality. He speaks English with a French accent -· arrogant to the end.

                             VICTOR
             Captain ... Before I come on board vour vessel.
             will you have the kindness to inform me in
             which direction are are bound"
CO!'iTl.'il'ED:
\Vaiton and Ivanovsky ;ook at each other flabbergasted.

                               W.-\L TO:\
             To the '.'iorth Pole on a voyage of discovery:

                             VICTOR
             1'11 come aboard then. with your permission.

Victor grabs the sling with great difficulty. The crew pulls him aboard rhe
'.\fevsky.

ON DECK;

Victor falls into unconsciousness as the crew carries him away.

                          GRIGORI ( SUBTITLED)
              The demon wore no furs.

                             SEAMA.'I #3 (SUBTITLED l
              He won't live long by God.

He crosses himself. His comrades follow suit.

INT - WALTON'S CABIN - DAY

Walton wipes the frost from Victor's bearded face with a hot rag. He's a
handsome man with intelligent features around thirty.

Walton produces a jug of liquor and slowly dribbles it on Victor's lips. He
remains de!erious.

EXT - DECK - TWILIGHT

A wolfhound GROVlLS. It leaps over the side, chasing something across
the ice.

Grigori calls out in Russian -- he whistles. ~o response.

From the limbo of the twilight, the hound CRIES Ou7" in death.

Suddenly its body arcs in the air. catapulted by a powerful force. It smacks
onto the deck -- its body broken in two.

Crewmen shrink back in horror. afraid to go near it.
                                                                            /
                                                                            l.O '




\\ialton writes in the ship's iog with quiil and inic. The \1,T,;D blows
fr: gid outside.
                              WALTON ( V.O.)
             ~ine days now the ice blocks our progress
             ~orth. God is playing games with my fate! The
             crew is more mutinous every day. The demon
             talk continues. Through much effort we have
             restored life to our mysterious patient. I took
             the liberty to search his grip. His name is
             Victor Frankenstein. a physician from Geneva.

Victors stirs beneath the covers. and Walton turns.

                           VICTOR
             Good morning, if it's morning.

                                WALTON
             No. it's nine in the evening. but you'd never
             know by the sun. Glad to see you coming
             around, Monsieur Frankenstein. Robert Wal top.
             Port of London. Captain of the Nevsky.

He reaches out his hand, but Victor's are frostbitten black and paralyzed.

                             W"ALTON
             Forgive me.

                             VICTOR
             The Nevsky?

                            WALTON
             Aye. she's a Russian whaler. Here man. let me
             get you some broth.

Walton ladles up a cup from the stove.

                           VICTOR
                    ( almost in a panic )
             How long have I slept?




                                                       t C01',TI:'.'iCED)
                                                                               7,
                                 .,.,,To-..;
                                 \o-Y ."'"\.L - •




•                Two days and rnree nights .

    Walton studies the wretc:ied man pitifuliy while he stirs the soup.

                              WALTON
                 How did we come to :ind you in this wasteland.
                 Victor?

                               VICTOR
                 To seek one who fled from me.

                                WALTON
                 And did he travel North?

                               VICTOR
                          ( almost reciting )
                 Always North •· "north to frozen hell."

                                  WALTON
                 Aye ... then we've seen him.

    Victor tries in vain to raise himself up. Only Walton's efforts keep him
    from collapsing.

                                WALTON
                 Easy there! God willing, we'll soon head ~orth
                 behind your man.

                                 VICTOR
                It is no man I pursue. Captain. It is a fiend that
                destroyed all I cherished in this world •· I live
                only to extinguish his cursed existence.

    Walton is taken aback by Victor's impassioned vow of revenge. Outside
    there's a terrific CRACK of ice giving way. The ship lists.

    EXT · NEVSKY • nvILIGHT

    More ice cracks. The ship lurches. Wolfbounds bark furiously. Crewmen
    crowd the gunwales. surveying the dimly lit ice.

    Wal ton finds Ivanov sky on the quarterdeck.




                                                           I rsQ',T!',l'-D
                                                           ,'-- . ' .   t. J
cor---.TI.'iCED:
                            l\'A.'iOVSKY
                               ! fearful)
             The men believe the demon ·,viil strike soon.
                              WALTON
             I'!l have the key to .the arms locker.

                             IVANOVSKY
                             ( humiliated )
             Aye, Captain.

He hands Walton the key.
INT - WALTON'S CABIN - TWILIGHT
Walton loads his pistols. Victor has pulled himself up to his elbows.

                             WALTON
             I have endured cold, famine, want of sleep ---
             do I not deserve to accomplish this great
             purpose? Only to be stopped by a phantom!??

                             VICTOR
             It is no phantom Captain ...

                             WALTON
             Then explain it. whatever it is! It could save
             the voyage!

                              VICTOR
             I had determined that the memory of these evils
             should die with me. but listen now and
             remember -- this is not the vision of a madman.

Walton sits beside Victor. Outside the ICE CRACKS like lightning.

                                                              SHARP CCT TO:

EXT - STOR..\fY SKY - NIGHT ( VICTOR'S STORY)
The heavens burst forth in a cataclysmic STOR..\1. Lighming rakes the sky
with fire, and thunder reverberates.
                                    ,·rcTOR
                                    ;, l  "    \ •·
                                                 y ,0 )

                   I confess it was the secrets of Heaven and Earth
                 . I desired to learn: it was the mysterious soul of
                   \Ian that obsessed me.

    The howling gaie shakes and bends a great oak. but it still stands. The
    CHILD VICTOR stands in his nightshirt. mesmerized by the storm.

                                 VICTOR (V .0.)
                 When [ was a child. I wimessed a stream of fire
                 strike an old oak about twenty yards from our
                 house. I had never beheld anything so utterly
                 and completely destroyed.

    A blinding flash and shower of sparks explodes as LIGHT~I;-,iG strikes the
    great oak. It is reduced to a smouldering ash heap -- annihilated.

                                 VICTOR (V .0.)
                 Even then the stonn that was hanging in the
                 stars was ready to envelop me.



                                            BEGIJV l¥/Al1V TITLES :
    And Scriabin's "Prometheus Poem" plays over lurid flames and black
    smoke as in a crematorium •- the remains of a great tree.

    E1VD MAl1V TITLES.
    EXT - LAKE GENEY A · DAY

    Paradise. Yiont Blanc. the ice mountain, stands in the distance.
                                 VICTOR ( V .0.)
                 I was born in Geneva. My family was one of
                 the most distinguished in the Swiss republic ...

    EXT· FRANKENSTEIN ESTATE, GS'fEVA · DAY
    The beautiful ELIZABETH L~ YENZ..\ drives her Arabian stailion
    through the gates, straddling the animal like like a charging cossack. She's



•
    nearly twenty. "Frankenstein" is etched in stone on the gates leading to a
    large estate.                                            -          -
                                 '·                   n C"'--\
                                  "1-1 CTOR ,, ·\. · ,.._.
                                                         u. 1,
                 " and the~e was my beautiful ·E,izabeth ... r:-:y
                 more than sister. since till deach she was to be
                 mine only.

    She flies by the charred stump of the once great oak.

    EXT - COCRTY ARD - DAY
    Elizabeth rides into the courtyard.•

    Victor's boyhood friend. HESRY CLERV AL. leaps aside as she JUmps a
    water trough nearly riding him down. Henry is almost delicare in bearing
    and wears spectacles. a merchant's son.

                                HENRY
                 Must you ride like a demon. Elizabeth?!

                                  ELIZABETH
                 Don't you mean "ride like a man", Henry?

    She laughs as she dismounts and strokes the frenzied animal's neck ro calm
    it. Elizabeth's smile, when it appears. is brilliant. She is irresistible .


•                                 HENRY
                 I mean what I sav.. Ride on ,vour head for all I
                 give a damn ... just watch where you're going.

                                  ELIZABETH
                                 (mirthfully)
                  Poor Henry: Did I frighten you?
                                  HENRY
                                 (flustered)
                  I've been here ever; dav for a week. Whv
                                       d      •                  •

                  won't Victor see me?

                                 ELIZABETH
                  Only Victor knows. He locks the door all dav
                  and works up there by night like a ghoul. ·

     Victor's two story guest house stands across the courtyard adjacen: :he
     mansion: shutters pulled and lifeless. They approach it as they speak.
     Henry POC'.'iDS on the downstairs entrance, but there's no response,



                                                                 tCONTI~CEDl
    CO :-.TI :--;CED:
                                   HE.\RY
                  At ,east you·ve seen him. I suppose he's sci!l
                  out of sorts about being expciied from the
                  medical faculty. His opinions have aiways been
                  stronger than his diplomacy.

    He pounds again. She laughs.
                                   ELIZABETH
                  Opinions! He was practically charged with
                  grave robbing. Clerval. ..

                                   HENRY
                                  (shocked)
                   Gnaverobbing? ! !
                               ( then !aughi ng )
                   One of his infamous pranks. I trust. ..

     Elizabeth leads the horse over to a water trough below Victor's shuttered
     window.

                               ELIZABETH

t                  He was lucky to get out of Ingolstadt at all --
                   And he came home so indignant! Of course
                   Uncle Alfonse agreed to give him all the money
                   he needs to continue his precious research.

                                    HENRY
                   Victor's pursuit of greatness shall go on.

                                   ELIZABETH
                   ~eanwhile, the pox and childbed fever murders
                   half the population.

                                    HENRY
                   You put yourself at risk tending to those
                   peoole. Elizabeth.

                                    ELIZABETH
                   You forget -- Victor's mother rislced the fever
                   herself when my own was dying.

      Elizabeth's horse drinks from the trough. A powerful jolt knocks the
      animai down. stunned and foaming at the mouth. Elizabeth SCRE..i.~lS.


                                                                (CO~rre,iCED1
                              !..!E'iRV
                              l ,..   .,   .l



               Great God'
                              ELIZABETH
               Victor: Something's happened to Suitan! Damn
               you come out of that tomb and help us!

Elizabeth throws a stone hard against the upstairs shutter.

I!'ff - VICTOR'S QCARTERS · CONTINCING ACTION

The room is indeed dark as a tomb.

                              ELIZABETH ( O.C.)
               Victor wake up!

A hand cracks the shutters an inch.

VICTOR'S POV • THE COURTYARD
Elizabeth - her arms wrapped around the prostrate animal.

                              ELIZABETH
               Are you stone? Help us!·

EXT - COlTRTYARD - C01'1'TINU1NG ACTION
Victor's little brother WILLIE comes running. He's about nine years oid.
He jabs the horse several times with his wooden sword.

                              WILLIE
               Is he dead? Is he dead? Who killed him?

Henry e;,;:amines the water trough. his eyes wide in horror.

VICTOR KICKS OPEN the downstairs door wearing elbow length thick
leather gloves, carrying a short wooden pole with a net. His clothes are of
the finest; tailored black breeches and a costly linen shirt. Handsome and
intense, he is in :ue summer of his youth.

 He dips the net in the trough and pulls up a writhing black ELECTRIC
 EEL. Elizabeth SCRE.c\...\1S, retreating. Henry pulls the curious Willie out
 of the way.

 Victor places the eel on the horse's chest. The animal starts with a great


                                                         l CONTLSl:EDl
CO:'-iTLSCED:                                                                   13.
soasm. Victor waits a mcment •· :moatient. He repears the process. The
h~rse jerks to its feet. \ ictor returns the eel ro r!.e trough ·· a rounne
house ca!L

Eiizabeth hugs her beloved mount. overcome ·· by joy. amazemenr ·· and
then anger.
                              HENRY
                       Cpon my life!
                              WILLIE
                       Do it again. Victor!

Victor examine's the animal's eyes. Elizabeth lashes out to strike him in
the face. He blocks her blow easily. Holding tightly to her arm. he kisses
her on the neck.

 Releasing her. he strides back inside and slams the door.

                              ELIZABETH
                       Bastard!

 Victor appears in the upstairs window. He closes the wooden shutters just
 in time to deflect Elizabeth's rock. Willie laughs riotously.

 Victor's father, ALFONSE, comes hobbling, battling the gout. Alfonse is a
 perfect Swiss gentleman, ever challenged by the inscrutable ways of the
 younger generation.

                             ALFONSE
               My dear! What's the matter?

                                WILLIE


                              ALFONSE
               Snakes? We have snakes?

 Wiliie shows him the trough.

                               ALFONSE
               Oh. those damned eels. Thev weren't anv
               bargain Clerval. believe me: But I'll ve~mre
               Victor's onto something with this notion of
               chemicai e!ecrncity,


                                                             V1' • •• ~L"ED•,
                                                          (c ,...,._,,.p.:•
                                                                        14--
                                                                        . ' .
                              ELIZABETH
              Oh bails:

Elizabeth tries re calm her skittish horse.

                              HE:--iRY
              \'fademoiselle Lavenza!

                               WILLIE
              She said it yesterday too. I heard her.

                              ELIZABETH
              Cncle. Victor nearly killed Sultan with those
              repulsive reptiles!

                              HENRY
             And revived him in an instant ... you'll admit
             that Elizabeth. The most extraordinary thing
             I've ever seen!

                              ELIZABETH
             Listen to you both! You positive! y encourage
             him -- and in front of the child! Willie could
             have been stung!

                               ALFONSE
             I'm sure Victor meant no harm. This is a
             difficult time for him.

                              WILLIE
             Call him down! He'll do it again, Papa!

Willie pokes his sword into the trough. Elizabeth pulls him back.

                              ELIZABETH
             Come along Willie -- it's not safe for anyone
             around here.

Elizabeth ushers him away with a firm. motherly hand.

EXT - COURTI ARD - NIGHT
A dead cat bobs in the watertrough. Eels feed on its carcass -- glistening
black shadows flitting here and there in the light of the moon.
     l:"a"T - \/ICTOR'S ROOM · \ilGHT

     Victor reads a ;arge hand iilustrated book of aichemy Engraved on the
     cover is the·name "Paracelsus."

                                   VICTOR <V.0.)
                  I discovered the dreams of forgotten
                  alchemists ... ancient knowledge ridiculed by my
                  narrow minded colleagues at Ingolscadt.

     A parrly dissected spider monkey is pinned and !aid out in a wax lined pan.
     Victor attaches a primitive galvanic battery to its feet. At regular
     intervals they twitch to full extension and then relax.

                                  VICTOR (V.0.)
                   Professor Waldman alone showed me the way •·
                   my mentor. On the brink of an astonishing
                   breakthrough -- I could go no further without
                 . him.

     FLASH TO: THE GREAT OAK TREE IS BLASTED BY LIGHT.'i!.'iG
     RESUME: VICTOR

     Grasping his head in excruciating pain •· tears rolling down his cheeks. He
     douses his head from a water pitcher.

     Pondering at length a bottle of laudanum on the wash stand -- he takes a
     great swallow. His tense muscles unwind as the opium hits his brain.

     He carefully removes five leeches from a jar. Laying down on his bed. he
     places them one by one on his temples and across his forehead. He snuffs
     the candle.

     The monkey twitches in the moonlight.

     EXT - VICTOR'S QUARTERS . MOR.'H~G

     Henry pulls up before Victor's quarters. Dismounting he carefully
     approaches the trough. The skeleton of a cat floats in view. He winces.
     making a wide berth to the door.



..   He POC'.'/DS to no response. Willie arrives, peering at the skeieton in rne
     :rough
                            H.:'iR'"
                              ~-   r
             How do we exrracr a dragon from his iaiL Sir
             William?

                             \\iILLIE
             With taunts and insults I have read. \,{onsieur
             Henry. But this dragon is a grouchy one so
             early in the momina. I shail wait behind that
             tree.

Wi l!ie takes sanctuary behind a tree and covers his ears. Henry POC:\DS
once more.

1N7" - VICTOR'S QUARTERS - YIORNING
The room is shuttered. Candles still burn. The monkey continues its grisly
movement on the table.

Victor lays on the bed -- leeches still fixed to his head. He removes one --
blood flows from the wound.

Henry POL~'DS again 0.C.

                              HENRY (V.0)
             Stir yourself if you breathe Frankenstein! I
             thought we'd have a go. I've a hll.Ildred francs
             wagered that you're not yet a suicide!

Victor removes a second leech. smiling ever so slightly at Henry's taunt.

EXT - VICTOR'S QUARTERS - DAY

Henry leans against the door shouting up at Victor. delighting in taunting
his friend.

                            HENRY
            So you are a suicide:

There's no sound from upstairs. Henry searches his mind for another :aunt.

                              HENRY ( continuing)
            I've lost a hundred good francs. It won't do
                                   .             .
            anv, harm then to tell vou -- wbile vou were in
            Ingolstadt -- a certain Captain of the Grenadiers
            named Decroix has been seen with
                             , \-!ORE)
    COl\iTI:-s;CED:
                                 HE.'iR Y I con Cd)
                 "~tademoise\\e Lavenza · in :he cafes of Geneva.
                 He reads her his poet..
    At that moment the door flies open depositing Henry on his backside in rhe
    dirt. Victor stands with two swords in his hand. Henry squirms to crawl
    away. Victor puts his boot on Henry's shoulder.

                                  VICTOR
                 [t speaks!   Is it Homo Sapiens Ereccus or the
                 son of the merchant and the reptile?

                               HE:-.RY
                  You grave robbing degenerate!

     Henry's spitting dirt.
                                 VICTOR
                  Ah, you spit. The cobra -- family Elapidae.
                  genera Naja. Is the tongue forked?

     Victor lets Henry up and tosses him a sword.

                                 VICTOR

•                 Yes. For it gives forth the venom of lies!

     Henry puts STEEL TO STEEL. and they test each other's strength. The
     fight begins. Henry is quickly on the retreat, but holds his own.

                                  HENRY
                  You'll not thump me around this season! I study
                  with Maestretti. Master of Arms!

                                  VICTOR
                  Maestretti has the face of a pig and your gut
                  sags like pudding.

     Victor presses hard against Henry's sword.

                                  HENRY
                  Your vanity is colossal. Frankenstein.

      Alfonse and Willie appear. Willie mimics Victor's moves with his trus,,.
      wooden sword.The duel moves toward the house.                          ·
                                                                     I 'o.
                                'ro-,;--
                              :\Lr  . :-,c,
              Courage. Clerva1'. Give rhe doctor a dose of
              humili cy '.

                            WILLIE
              Run him through: Gue him like a Turk. Victor'.

                             VICTOR
              Shall we malce him eat a bug again. Wiilie·J

Victor presses hard with several slashes.

                               WILLIE
              I'll catch a big one!
Willie jumps down and begins searching for an insecr. Victor overcommirs
himself and· Henry puts him on the defensive.

                            HENRY
             Moderation. Frankenstein. Everything in
             moderation.

Victor is in a fix. and Henry's deljghted.

No one sees Elizabeth watch from behind a hedge.

                               VICTOR
              :'.'Jothing in moderation. Clerval!

                                    .
Victor unleashes a f1urrv. on Henrv. Terrified. he stumbles back over the
eel trough. He's on his back with Victor's sword at his throat and knees
on his chest.

                           ALFONSE
             Careful now, Son -- don't draw blood!

                             VICTOR
             Don't worry, Father. I'll just drop an eel on
             his greedy heart and sew his throat up good as
             new,

Willie runs over with a caterpillar in his hand.
                                   \VILLIE
                 Here: [rs deadiy poisonous.

    He rakes the worm from Wiilie. \Villie gets down for a bird's eye , iew.

                                   VICTOR
                 A Captain Decroi~ did you say?

    Elizabeth iistens with mischievous delight.

                                   HENRY
                  He's been with her every Thursday afternoon.
                  Shall I take an oath?

    Victor pops the worm in his own mouth and swallows. He leers in
    Henry's face. Willie is amazed.

                                   HENRY
                  You are mad •• truly insane.

    Elizabeth is completely revolted.

    Victor helps Henry up and hugs him. The men walk arms around one
     another.
                                    ALFONSE
                  I must say I'm delighted to see you young men
                  finding -pleasures in your former pursuits.

     Elizabeth appears suddenly.
                                   ELIZABETH
                  Personally Uncle. I find puberty most
                  unbecoming after a certain age.

     She glares at Victor and walks off.

                                   HENRY
                  I wouldn't take this Decroix fellow too
                  seriously.

                                   VICTOR
                  Seriously'l Must I vie for one who was mine
                  before she was born')


•
COSTI~"CED:
\Varching her as she goes•· rhe modem age incarnate.

                              VICTOR i V 0. l
              Everyone loved Eiizaberh. Hers was a beauty
              aliied with intellect and candor ...

1::-.."T . P ARLOCR • ~IGHT
A birthday party for ..\lfonse is in full swing. Elizabeth pours wine from a
Spanish glass "porron". The thin stream rolls down her forehead. the
bridge of her nose and into her mouth. The family applauds.

Victor kisses her. and wine drips from their mouths.
                              VICTOR (V .0.)
              Elizabeth. cherished companion of all my
              pleasures and pursuits. ~o words can convey
              the kind of relation in which she stood to me.

Elizabeth reaches for a cigar from a humidor on the table and puts ir in
her mouth.
                              ALFONSE
                      (shocked but not surprised)
              See the habits she's acquired in your absence
              Victor.

                              HENRY
              I declare you've become positively eccentric.
              Elizabeth.

 Victor lights the cigar for her.

                               VICTOR (V.0.)
              She was life itself.

 £NT - ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM-· LATER
 Elizabeth brushes her hair by the fire in her night gown.

 Victor enters from the balcony. An old routine. He kisses her neck.
 pulling her down beside him on the floor. She doesn't want to piay.




                                                        l C01'iTI~CED 1
                                 \!CTOR
                 Lie 1f necessary. but teil 1;e how muc:1 you've


•                missed me .


                 Sureiv
                                  ELIZ,\BETH
                       ., rhe femaies in loizolstadt
                 sufficiently.
                                           ....      fed "'vour vanirv.,


                                  VICTOR
                 But is it ever sufficient?
                                 ELIZABETH
                 I'm sure I wouldn't know. How long will you
                 be gone this time? A year? Two" Three
                 perhaps?
                               VICTOR
                 God knows l can't finish my work here.

    Victor takes a small flask from his coat pocket and uncaps it.

                                   ELIZABETH
                 A new vice?

                                  VICTOR
                 Laudanum.

                                 ELIZABETH
                 Isn't that opium?

                                 VICTOR
                 Opium in an akhohol base. A delightful
                 mixture - like to try some?

                                  ELIZABETH
                 I think not. Isn't it addictive?
                                 VICTOR
                 Ail good things are addictive, are they not"

    He puts her legs over his shoulders and comes up near to her. He pulls on
    the laudanum.
    COSTI'.'iCED:
                                  \ ICTOR
                 ,;\,'ho's this Captain Decroi, of rhe Grenadiers"
                 \-lust I ki!l him?

                                  ELIZABETH
                 He's a poet.

                                 VICTOR
                 So I shall have to kill him.

                                  ELIZABETH
                 You've hardly been home three times in three
                 years. Victor. La.eking an hour or two of
                 intelligent conversation a week I'd have gone
                 mad.

                                 VICTOR
                 So why not talk to Henry?

                                 ELIZABETH
                 Henry's greatest fear in life is an
                 unconventional thought.



•   Victor kisses her passionately. She responds. her own passions aroused.

                                 VICTOR
                  I forbid you to see this grenadier.
    Elizabeth pushes him off and gets up to stand by the fire.

                                 ELIZABETH
                 Don't "forbid" me anything.     You've no right.

                                 VICTOR
                I've every right. We shall be married one day.
                You were a present from my dear departed
                mother and those were her express wishes.

                                 ELIZABETH
                And would she were here tonight to correct
                your presumptuous notions. Don't talk to me of
                marriage .




•
    CONTI.'iCED:
                                 \ !CTOR
                  ts tt me or marnage tnat s cnart,rng you.
                  ..   ,          '      '   p   '   --·   ,")




                                  ELIZABETH
                 It's the double standard: \Vhy should I marry
                 and enter into an agreement which requires tne
                 virtual abandonment of my civil rights? A wife
                 is a minor should she live to the age of eighty,,

                                      VICTOR
                 But can a house abide without authority?

                                 ELIZABETH
                 Can a slave live without a master ? A free man
                 without a king?

                              VICTOR
                 A woman without a man?

                                 ELIZABETH
                 If she so chooses, and very well thank you.



•   He begins unbuttoning her gown. She likes it. but resists .

                                 ELIZABETH
                 Besides. we were raised together. We border on
                 incest!

                                  VICTOR
                 But if it were less incestuous, would it be so
                 delicious?

                                 ELIZABETH
                  Victor, no. Not like before.

    She pushes him away and stands up. pulling her gown top back: up. His
    pride is on the defensive.

                                 VICTOR
                 Am I suddenly inadequate ?
co:-;T1:--.LED:
                                , 'Z.l.B~-H
                              ELI    . .. t l
              Vicror !="ranKenstein: Inadequate' How could
              perfection be held ;nadequate 1

                               VICTOR
              I take it this is a dissection °
Relentless -- her sarcasm cuttting with surgical precision -- sne backs him
out onto the balcony.

                              ELIZABETH
              Forgive me. You aren't quite perfect. Victor.
              Vaniry is your sole imperfection. but a
              monstrous one it is!

EXT - BALCOf\l-Y - CO~"TINUING ACTION
She slams the French doors in his face. He starts to. speak through the
glass. She yanks the curtains closed.
                                     VICTOR
              I'll send poetry and sugar plums on Thursdays!
              From Ingolstadt! .
 He nearly falls to his death climbing over the rail.

 INT - FOYER - DAY
 The sun is high as the family bids Victor farewell. Elizabeth is
 conspicuously absent. Jean Claude carries out Victor's bags. He picks up
 little Willie.
                                VICTOR
              You've got your instructions should the Turks
              attack. The fate of Christendom is in vourd


              hands, General Frankenstein.

 Willie salutes.

                                WILLIE
              Grapeshot and burning oiL Will you send more
              specimens Victor"
    CO'.'-iTI :'.'iLED:
                                     VICTOR
                    .-\s soon as ! get a good report on the progress
                    of .vour Latin. :\ow be off wirh .vou.

    V 1cror's !ittie brother gers a kiss goodb~e. v;ctor is ieft alone with his
    father. The old man admires the portrait of Victors mother.

                                     VICTOR
                    if it weren't for this I'm not certain I'd
                    remember her at all.

                                 ALFONSE
                    Oh you remember her in your heart Victor. If
                   only Willie could have had .\1ary for a mother
                   instead of the vixen I sired him by. I still think
                   of your mother. I see her everytime I look
                   upon your Elizabeth.

    Victor turns away at the mention of Elizabeth's name.

                                    ALFONSE
                   She is yours Victor. No matter this quarrel or


•                  whatever it is. Do not be flagrant with her heart
                   on account of foolish pride.

    Victor will still not acknowledge the .subject of the conversation. Father
    and son embrace.

                                    ALFONSE
                   Enjoy life - it is so brief. Aspire to greatness.
                   yes. But not beyond your measure.

                                    VICTOR
                   Father I pledge to you ... I'm on the brink of
                   something astonishing. I must speak with
                   Professor Waldman ...

                                  ALFONSE
                                (interrupting)
                   Beware this Waldman.

                                    VICTOR
                   Waldman is a genius. not a criminal.
    CO~Tl:'.'<LED:
                               .. ·-o,s-
                               .. LJ-.. t.
                              {fi na! advice;


•                 Goa enlists no apprencices. m:,, son.

    The old man can no \onger hoids back his cears. A final embrace.

    EXT - ~l.\.SSION · DAY

    Workers lower the crates of eels onto the coach with a winch and ;:,ui!e:,,.
    Jean Claude supervises.

                                  VICTOR
                  Shall we leave one of my black senoritas for the
                  table Jean Claude? A white wine and mustard
                  sauce might prove excellent.

    Victor and Jean Claude share a laugh. Henry helps hoist the last trunk atop
    the coach and jumps down. He grasps Victor by the shoulders.

                                   HENRY
                  I miss the old days. Victor. You take to the
                  adult life. but I fear it's a jest at my expense.

                                  VICTOR
                  You'll have the last laugh yet.

                                    HENRY
                  So send for me if the girts are prettier in
                  Ingolstadt.

                                   VICTOR
                  I'll hardly be looking.

     He looks around for the absent Elizabeth.

                                    HE:SRY
                  Oh Lord man. why don't you just go up and see
                  her?

     Victor embraces his friend and ieaps into the coach.

                                 VICTOR
                  Read her poetry for me on Thursdays.
    CO~TI~CED:
                                                                        2-1.
                                 HE:--.-RY
                 Everything ::1 moderauon. Frankenstein:

                                 VICTOR
                 Sothing in moderation. Clerval:

    Victor slaps his hand on rbe carriage and looks back toward the mansion
    once more for Elizabeth as it pulls away.

    WITH VICTOR -- LOOKING BACK
    She does not appear.

    !:'iT - ,'.1ANSION - ELIZABETH'S POV - DAY
    She watches the carriage pull away. Tears well up in her eyes.

    EXT - FAMILY CEMETERY - ;\,10RN1NG
    The carriage waits as Victor enters the Frankenstein family cemetery. He
    slowly approaches a grave site with a bouquet.

    The gravestones read " Mary Frankenstein, 1790 - 1811. " The other

t   reads" Infant Girl 1811". Victor kneels down, placing the bouquet on his
    mother's grave.

    F!ASHBACK: EA.MILY CEMETERY TWEI';"TY YEARS BEFORE

    A funeral has ended. A YOUNGER ALFONSE. stands beside the CHILD
    VICTOR, who kneels at the grave, carefully fingering a flower and then a
    dump of earth. A servant holds the hand of a little giri barely three. the
    CHILD ELIZABETH.

                                ALFONSE
                It's time to go to the house, Victor.

                               VICTOR
                We can't leave Mama here.

                               ALFONSE
                Your mother's gone now, Son.

    Alfonse kneels down and hugs Victor .



•
                                ALFO'.',SE
               Lime Elizaberh s iost her mother too ... She's
               going to live with us c1ow. and she'll be ,our
              -verv  -own. She is vour mother's izift to vou
                                                          . •·
                  ..              .             -      ~

               her dying wish.

                              VICTOR
              But I want Ylama ...

Little Elizabeth gently takes his hand. She smiles. He begins to calm down

INT · COFFIN · DAY
Victor's young mother lies still in a dimiy lit coffin. wrapped in her
funeral shroud. Beside her an infant girl rests in a tiny pink coffin.

EXT - ALPS PASS • DAY
The carriage passes high above the valley. Enormous glaciers stretch
about on the granite heights, and the horses strain against the ascem.

EXT - FOREST ROAD · SUNDOWN
Victor's coach passes. SHR1LL CRIES of gypsies clacking their tongues
breaks the night's monotony. Victor looks out. intrigued.

HIS pOV · A GYPSY CAMP
Wagons spread under the trees around a pond. Hundreds of candles glow
like fireflies. The shrill cries crescendo.

 E..XT - GYPSY CAi'vfP - ~1GHT
 Victor witnesses a pagan gypsy ritual. Candles float on tiny boats in the
 pond.

 Everywhere GYPSIES wail the shrill cry -- all kneeling or dancing
 around a lone wagon at the center of camp.

 An OLD GYPSY MEDICINE WOMAN shakes an herb branch at a wild
 turkey squawking on a chopping block. She chops off its head •··

 -·- and carries the head chanting into the wagon.

 Jean Claude moves through the waiting gypsies ro Victor
                                    JEA~ CL..\CDE
                  '.lonsieur. their Herman was stabbed in a lo•.er's


•               . quarreL The oid woman is curing his souL
                  Pagans.
                              VICTOR
                 Remember your Christian manners. Jean
                 Claude.

    Victor wends his way through the Gypsies to the wagon.



    Victor tries to enter. Two GYPSY MEN stop him.

                                 VICTOR
                 I am a doctor---
    The old woman turns from her work hissing at him --- threatening with a
    bloody knife.
                               OLD GYPSY WOMA.;'i
                 Go away. What can you do for the dead'?

    That is the question. Victor's eyes are intense in the candle light. He rakes
    in the bizarre sight.
     SERGIO. the Gypsy Hetman is sprawled nude. Lifeless. His mouth is
     stuffed like a pig with turkey feathers and wolfbane.

     The Old Woman lays wolfbane branches on each of his limbs in ritual
     pattern. She blows each with a prayer and traces the bloody turkey claw
     around bis heart.

     Three young GYPSY WOMEN circle the body chanting. Each drips hot
     candle wax into the knife wound across his chest.


                                   VICTOR
                    The man's not dead until a physician
                    pronounces him dead--

     Victor forces the old woman aside and begins checking Sergio's vital
     signs. He clears the man's mouth and nose checking for any sign of
     breath. He presses his ear to Sergio's chest. He c~ecks his pulse. He c'.ea~.s
    rhe wound of wax and '.urkey feathers. opening lf wider    Fresh b/ooo s: : ;
    flows. Life'

    \ ictor glares at the o!d woman for her ignorance. He shouts to Jean
    Claude in   French. His servant paies and hurries from the wagon.

    The beautiful Gypsy Girl falls prostrate on Sergio kissing him. caressrng
    him .. begging him to iise up in her language.

    The Old Woman yanks the girl back by the hair·- slapping her face.

                                 OLD GYPSY WOMAN
                 Whore! It is because of you my son goes to the
                 spirit world. I curse your loins ·-·

    Victor blows into the victim's mouth. The man's stomach bulges. His
    lungs are clear!
                                   VICTOR
                           (to the old woman)
                 Te!l everyone to leave. You stay and bear
                 witness .


•   The Old Woman looks into Victor's eyes. She holds his serpentine gaze
    and quietly orders everyone out.

    EXT - GYPSY WAGON • CONTINUING ACTION

    Jean Claude delivers his medicine bag and a wet sack to Victor and retires.

    Gypsies crowd outside the wagon. Word spreads about the ''Doctor··.

    ON THE WALLS OF THE WAGON
    We see the Old Woman. Sergio and Victor in silhouette. Like shadow
    puppets, we witness the bizarre event. Victor checks a syringe and injects
    Sergio. One, two, three rimes. He raises the man up squeezing him in a
    bearhug until blocked fluid gorges from his mouth. Still the man is life!ess.

                               OLD GYPSY WO.MAN
                 Vrolok! Ordog!

    The Oid Woman curses Victor. Gypsies outside react audibly in tear anc
    horror.
    ln silhouette. Victor raises the shadow serpenr over Sergio. It goes ng1a
    for a secona iiKe a dagger -- Victor ie:s the serpent faii :in Sergic s (2r:n--

    The body spasms. Gypsies react in shock and amazement. Serjlio bolts
    uori aht--ALIVE'
     . "'
    EXT - WAGON E~7"RA:-,.iCE - C01'<1ISCI!'iG ACTIOt--i
    Sergio bolts from the wagon like a wraith. He runs screaming and cackiing
    through the amazed crowd and plunges into the pond.

                                    SERGIO
                   ! am King! I live! Sergio lives\

     AT THE WAGON E::--ITRA.NCE
     Victor watches his "miracle" chasing Gypsy Women around the camp.

     The Old Woman pushes by Victor--hissing at him, cursing his soul.

                                   OLD GYPSY WOMAN
                   That no good louse was better off dead! I curse


•                  you-- and your serpent--

                                   Vl CTO R
                   I've no need of your curses, old Woman. His
                   wound was not fatal. His heart was in limbo. I
                   only saved him from you.

     The old woman spits at him and chases after Sergio.

     The Gypsy girl "whore" presses against Victor -- arousing him. She folds
     the gold pieces from Sergio's eyes into his hand.

                                     GYPSY WHORE
                   Like a God it must feel -- to give life.

      Victor returns the money. like a father to a child--as he descends the
      wagon steps with his writhing sack into a sea of Gypsies. They flock
      around him like a matinee idol.

      The Young Giris kiss and touch him: Gvosies offer him flowers. tr•nKets.
      and charms. ~·ictor is imbued --- thrivi~g on the power -- drinking. it m.
He doesn't l+ice the Victor he sees coming his way.

EXT - ROAD - DAY
The carriage pul!s up a steep hi IL the horses straining. Vicror pusnes from
the back. Jean Ciaude whips the horses. ur:1ing rhem on.

Spokes break -- the wheel splits in two.The carriage grounds to a hale

Jean Claude and Victor survey the damage.

THE CARRIAGE: LATER
Victor struggles with a wocden beam to lever up the carriage ·- but not
high enough. The hill and rough surface make for a precarious set up.
Jean Claude tries to shimmy the wheel on. He's in a dangerous position.

                              VICTOR
              I can't hold it any longer. Jean Claude •· get
              back!

The lever begins to crack under the stress. Suddenlv a Ml"SCLLAR AR.\!
enters frame beside Victor bracing the wagon. Victor turns. The arm
belongs to:

 FR.A.¾JCOIS. a brawny peasant with an open face and ready smile. Hes
 simple and illiterate. He holds the wagon up with ease.

                             FRA.SCOlS
              Take your time. brothers. There's no hurry.

 Jean Claude slips the wheel on.

                              VICTOR
                             ( amazed )
              You're strong as an ox man!

                              FRANCOIS
              But not so smart.

  He lowers the wagon with ease.




                                                         ,,._ L~O"'Tl'··l·-o\
                                                                 ;, -; ,.~"' .1::.
                                                                                 1
    CON'TT'.',CED:
                                 \iCTOR
                 Thank you. Ler me pay :,cu.

                                 FR ..\:-iCOiS
                                                                 1
                 ~o piace to spend it. \:Vhere's my sweerheart'

     ..\ cow meanders up the road. Francois takes her by the halte~.

                                 FRANCOiS
                 Chopped wood for two months to buy her.
                 Pretrv, ain't she?
                                 VICTOR
                 You make a most handsome couple.

    Francois roars with a big peasant laugh.

                               VICTOR
                 Do you know the monastery up ahead at
                 Geislengen?
                                 FRANCOIS
                 I work for the brothers ... raised me from an

•                orphan. they did.

     Victor pets the cow.
                                FRAJ.'iCOIS (continuing)
                 Your carriage won't make the hill up there.
                 friend.

     EXT - ROAD TO MONASTERY - LATER
     Rain pours. The road runs along the Danube River. Victor walks one oi
     the homes with Francois. waving to Jean Claude in the distance.

                                 VICTOR
                  Do you join the brothers in their celibacy ?

                                  FRANCOIS
                  Not that I know of. I'd take a wife. but the
                  brothers say the world will corrupt me. Drink 0

      He hands Victor a leather bag of warer. He drinks deep.




                                                            l COi'iTI~l"ED 1
CONTI.SLED:
                              rrR'    ,·-01~:,
                                 ..-,,.,1...
              I'd give vou wine bu, ,he brochers drink it al!
            . the;sei,;es. Yonder' There·s the monastery.

THEIR POV:

An ancient monastery on the top of a high hilL

                              VICTOR
             Do vou know of a brother named Waldman. or
             Lud~i "'a as he mav. call himself: He was last
             sighted there.

                              FRANCOIS
             The brothers don't speak. I do that for them.

                              VICTOR
             I shall have to remedy their habits.
                             FR.-'\NCOIS
                     (patting his chest)
             Francois.
                            VICTOR
                  (patting his own chest)
            Victor.

They approach the monastery.

EXT - GATE OF MONASTERY · DAY
Rain falls harder. Francois waves goodbye. leading his cow toward the
rear of the monastery.

The monastery is a fortress. all walls. bars and doors. Victor pounds on a
huge door. Rain falls harder. After a moment the door opens. A
HOODED MONK glares at Victor.

                               VICTOR
            Victor Frankenstein. from Geneva. I've come
            to see Brother Ludvig.

The door closes. leaving Victor in the rain. He POl;'-IDS a12ain. The monK
returns.

                              VICTOR
                              1Y.ORE)
                                     VICTOR 1conr'di                        35.
                 I must see r.i m    ,\nnounce my name. He knows
                 who I am.
    The monk says nothing. ;ncensing Victor.

                                VICTOR
                 Your sanctuary looks like a dungeon to me ...
                 Does your God bid you live like prisoners?:

    The monk: motions for Victor to wait and closes the d.oor again. The
    heavens are illuminated by LIGHT'.'iING and rent by THl:~DER. His
    horse is skittish.

    The RA.IN becomes the sound of APPLACSE YfIXED WITH BOOS.

                                                                 DlSS0L\E TO:

    l~'T - LECTlJRE HALL - DAY [FLASHBACK]
    DOCTOR WALDMAN addresses STUDENTS AND TEACHERS in a
    filled hall. He is a short but remarkably erect middle aged man. He's been
    interrupted by the ruckus but continues calmly in a sweet voice .


•                                   WALDMA.:,.J
                 The mouldy dogmas of religion strangle honest
                 inquiry on every front! I challenge the best of
                 you -- we near the day when we will acquire
                 new and unlimited powers ... command the very
                 thunders of Heaven... even unveil the secrets of
                 Life and Death! We shall be Gods!

    BOOS and SHOUTS of "blasphemer" and " devil worship" erupt. A shoe
    is thrown at Wa.!dman's head. VICTOR ALONE stands and applauds.

    I:N'T - WALDMA'.\!'S LAB - ~IGHT [ FLASHBACK CO!:';"TI:'.'il"ES ]

    THlJNDER and LIGHTI',,1NG boom outside as Waldman packs up his lab
    with Victor. He stops before a primitive set of batteries attached to a
    dissected frog's legs. They flex with a regular rhythm. Victor is fascinated.

                                WALDMAN
                Insights based on the work of Galvani and the
                American, Ben Franklin. The living lxxiy is a


•               machine powered by electricity Victor .
COSTI:--.:CED:
Liohrnin11. flashes outside \'Valdman unhooks the wires to the frog.
  ,,     -
                              vICTOR
              The facuitv dismissed vou because thev envv
                        .,           .,               ..    $




              your genius.

He scoffs. leading him to another apparatus.

                             \VALDMAN
              This elegant little apparatus is the work of that
              "superstitious primitive." Paraceisus.

Candles magnified by mirrors are refracted through a lens. The resulting
beam shines upon a cluster of jewels. An unearthly laser - like lighr emits.

                               WALD~tA.'i
                                ( continuing)
              The beam of light you see excites the atoms of
              whatever it shines upon ... I've yet to understand
              it fully myself. But the possibilities are exciting.

                             VICTOR
              Paracelsus. Agrippa. .. the alchemists are called
              laughing stocks by my other teachers.

                             WALDMAN
              And perhaps it is better that way. Great
              knowledge and small minds is a dangerous
              compound.

 Waldman shuts it off and begins disassembling it. Victor is crestfallen.

                             VICTOR
              I must ask vou not to leave the Universitv.
              Professor Waldman. I should more than·
              anything wish to be your assistant.

 Waldman grasps him affectionately.

                               WALDMAN
              Ah. Frankenstein. I am flattered to gain a
              disciple. But unfortunately. given the
              circumstances. that can never be.




                                                           (CONTI:SCEDl
CO'.'<TI :-,,iCED:
\Vaidman reaches for a box. stuffing books in it.

RESC:\-iE: GATES OF ~fO~ASTERY · \IGHT [ E'.'iD FL.\SHBACK\

A :":ash of LIGHT:'.'il;-.iG breaks Victor's nnuse. The monk aopears ana
motions Victor inside.
I~T - MONASTERY - NIGHT
Last rites are being administered to Brother Ludvig as Victor enters the
candlelit room. The PRIEST leaves. motioning Victor to enter.

                              VICTOR
                Dr. \Valdman. It's Victor Frankenstein.

Ludvig struggles to reach consciousness. His face is ravaged by smail pox.
a red mass of oozing pustules. He· wears a hair shirt and a ring of thorns
on his forehead. He's bleeding. Victor winces.
                                 LUDVIG
               "Dr. Waldman". No one has called me that in a
               long time. So ... my erstwhile disciple
               Frankenstein. I feared you would arrive ...
               thank God it won't matter now.


                                 VICTOR
               I was e;,;petled for continuing your work in
               restoring life to small mammals.

                                  LCDVIG
               Child's play ... that's why it was left behind ... mv
               later work went much further.                       ·

                                VICTOR
               That's why I've come to you. I need your
               knowledge ... Dr. Waldman -- the " Secret of
               Life'' is within our grasp!
  Ludvig grabs Victor's lapci with his pociced hand and puils him close.

                               LCDVIG
                Your grasp! I know whv vou've come vounll
                man! Do you believe in·e;il':'     ·   -
    CO STI :--;CED:                                                        3'i3.
                                  ,·,~TOR
                                  ¥ l L ~




•                I believe Disease and ignorance ... and Death are
                 the chief agents of Evil.

                                   LCDVIG
                 \-1y wm:k, was evil: I uncovered secrets. dark
                 and Satanic secrets. and I married them with the
                 science I had at my disposal...It went horribly
                 wrong ... and I destroyed it. because it was an
                 obscenity in the face of God!

    He pushes the young man away with what little strength he has and r,1r:1s
    his face to the pillow. But Victor presses harder.

                                  VICTOR
                 But it might have turned out differently ... In
                 the name of Humanity do not take your
                 knowledge to the grave!

                                  LUDVIG
                       . ...•"',o.1 A m b'1t1on.
                 H umamty                   . 1 I mmorta1·Hy.1
                                                        l
                 know what drives you young man! I've paid for
                 my crimes against God Frankenstein!

    He lifts up his cassock to show horrible scars from the whip. Vicror
    winces. Ludvig nearly passes out with eichaustion.

                                  VICTOR
                God gave us fire Doctor, and fire is deadly ... a
                tool of war. an agent of destruction and
                tragedy ... yet the whole progress of our
                civilization is built upon its harnessing .. .I
                believe we would choose to have fire. whether
                we're burned a thousand times!

     Ludvig is struggling for strength. knowing he's speaking his final words.

                                LUDVIG
                And so the prophets speak; the world shall end
                by fire! But only One should possess the Book
                of Life. Submit to God Frankenstein ... do not
                refuse!


•
    CO"'TI~CED:
    Ludvig loses consciousness.
                                  VICTOR
                  Brothers' He's dying.

    The ocher monks and priest enter and stand over the dying man.

                                  VICTOR
                                                           .
                                 - .oersona! effects ... Thev could
                  Brother Ludvig's
                  be of great value to science Father.

    The pri.est shakes his head with an emphatic " no". Victor is led away o:-, a
    hooded monk.

    !:-IT - CHAPEL - ~IGHT

    Victor is shown into the small candlelit chapel. Alone. he kneels before a
    great crucifix. A sad but forgiving Savior looks down upon him.

                                 VICTOR
                 You raised the Dead. So shall L

    Victor steals out of the chapel. Th_e Savior. silent -- grieves for mankind.

    INT - MONASTERY - NIGHT

    Victor moves quickly along the torchlit hallway passing tiny cell cubicles
    of the monks. A MOA..'J of pain echoes as a devotee does penitence with a
    short flagellate.

    In another a monk is visible on his knees with a large stone on his tongue.
    INT - Ll.iDVIG'S CUBICLE - NIGHT

    The room is pitch dark. Victor enters. He finds a book and rips a large
    page out. He lights the page on a torch in the hallway and returns.

    The light falls on Ludvig's Bible. He has torn a page of Genesis.

    INSERT- BURNING PAGE

    We see these words from Genesis. "And God created man in his own
    image, male and female he created them. And God saw every thing


•   that he had made and behold, it was very good."
ro ·TI"T.,...D
'-'     '.'.   •   1.,C    :                                                     4o.
The words are co!1summed in flames.

VICTOR STA,\,1PS THE PAGE OCT
 He searches the room. A hairshirt hangs on the wali -- sharp spikes are 1,s
 lining. A crotch piece is of simiiar design. Ludvig's bed is made of snarp
 stones and corn husks. and his piliow is a mass of thorns. VOICES echo :n
 the hallway -- a Death Chane coming his way.

 He pries open a large trunk with an iron crucifix. bending the ·hoiy
 artifact. He finds what he's looking for-- an old book doubie locked in
 chain. Beside it is a pistol.
  The CHA;1iTING draws nearer. He looks for an escape. The window 1s
  barred.
  EXT - CORRIDOR - ~lGHT
      A procession of CHA!-;'TING monks carry the body of Brother Ludvig to
      his room. It's open. Victor is kneeling in prayer.

      RESUM:E - LUDVIG'S ROOM

      Victor nods sadly as the body is placed on the bed.

                                          VICTOR
                                  ( a convincing charade )
                          I wanted to spend a few moments alone in
                          Brother Ludvig's quarters. I felt the moment
                          of his passing in my heart.

      The priest points to a Latin saying 011 the wall above Ludvig's bed, Victor
      translates.
                                         VICTOR
                          "God knows best." Yes brother. but who knows
                          God?
       EXT - ~ONASTERY GROUNDS - NIGHT
       Victor exits. The door is bolted behind him. Lightning and THl~DER
       echo in the distance.

       E.XT · '-fONASTERY GROC:"IDS . DA\V:',I


                                                                  ( co:--.Tl;sil.ED'
CO'.',;TI~LED:


TIGHT OS. THE BOOK OF LIFE
Lvin11 in in rhe mud beneath Ludviis window where Victor tossed iL
\:ict;r retrieves it and tucks it ;n his satchei.

Escaping. he climbs the burial wall containing the remains of the dead.
The monk's names are covered with the mud from his boots.

EXT - ~OCNT AIN ROAD - DAY
Victor rides down the steep path leading away from the ancient monasrer;.
A buzzard hovers high above. Victor watches the bird circle graceful!:.

Without warning, an OUTIA W leaps on Victor's back. knocking him in
the head and brutally to the ground.

 Before the stunned victim can gather his wits, a SECOND OCTLA W has a
 single shot pistol in Victor's face. There's nothing Robin Hoodish about
 these predators ..
                                OlTTLAW #2
               Don't move or the buzzard 'II be pickin' out
               your brains.

                                OUTLAW #1
               I'll have the satchel.
 He cuts the leather string that holds Victor's satchel. Rifling it. he sees rhe
 stolen journal and flings it away with scorn.

                               VICTOR
               Just take the horse and saddle. Ride it straight to
               hell.

  He receives a painful kick to the ribs.

                                VICTOR
               Either pull the trigger or get your foul breath
               out . :· my face.

  The executioner atop Victor merely laughs with blackened toeth. A loud
  WHOOSHI~G sound starties him. A HATCHET flies past. severing his
  hand as it buries itself into a tree. He SCREA,.\1S in pain. blood spurting
    COt'-iTI;siCED:
    The PISTOL FlRES

    Francois charges. wielding a broad axe. The ourlaws flee. snounng bact<
    from the '.rees.
                                 OCTL~W lf2
                  We'll meet again. citizen!

    Thev disappear into the forest.

    Francois carefully gathers up Victor's things and puts them in the sacche!
    He returns it to him.
                                  FRANCOIS
                  I have sinned. I shed blood.

    Still groggy, Victor checks to see the book in the satchel.

                                VICTOR
                  And I'm thankful you did. Let me pay you this
                  time.



•    He tears the lining of his coat and pulls out a bag of gold coins.

                                 FRA.NCOIS
                  No payment... God repays.

                                VICTOR
                  But I owe you my life.

                                FRANCOIS
                  You owe God your life ... and a death. Are you
                  of the faith?

                                 VICTOR
                  I am today brother.
     He pulls a charcoal pencil from his satchel and writes on a scrap of paper.

                                    FRANCOlS
                  I d., 1't read Victor. The brothers don't teach.

                                   VICTOR
                  It says Victor Frankenstein. Ingolstadt. I'm a
                  doctor. if I can ever assist you. Francois.


                                                             ( CO:,..iTI.'.',CED l
                                                                              4-3.
V:ctor searcnes rne man's eyes. He sees only perfect innocence.

SXT - HILL OVERLOOKJ~G INGOLSTADT - SC~D0\V~
The sun is blood red from fires in and out of the city, HORSES ..i,,',iQ
CARRIAGES jam the highway ieaving the city. Peopie on foot wnh '.heir
belongings on canes and on their backs flee the city,

POV INFECTED CITIZENS
The already infected move in the distance. a pathetic i:Jartaiion lcepr far
away from the road by guards and gunpoint.

Jean Claude stops and takes in the sight.

                              JEAN CLAl:DE
              This road leads to Hell. Monsieur. Cpon your
              father's account I must beg you to tum back.

Victor jumps up and takes the reins from Jean Claude.

                               VICTOR
              I'll go on alone Jean Claude. You're to say
              nothing of this to the family.

                               JE.~N CLAUDE
              I shall try to keep my peace. God bless you
              Monsieur Frankenstein.

The old servant embraces Victor and gets down. Victor begins the descenL

EXT - GATES OF INGOLSTADT - NIGHT

Great fires are burning, fueled by the bodies of the dead. The torch tined
burial pit is overflowing and new bodies are unceremoniously dumped out
of the back of a Death Cart. Other carts wait in line.

Two bodies in winding sheets. both children. are dumped into the pit. The
MOTHER. pulling her hair and SCREAMING hat to be restrained from
diving in behind them.

Only Victor's carriage moves coward Ingolsradt,

A COACH DRIVER shakes his fist and curses Victor's carriage for
blocking the narrow road.                                -



                                                         ( CONTI:--il'ED l
CONTI.'<LED
Victor gets our c-riage ar:d grabbing the opposing ream of horses
by the harness. J,n out of the way so his .::arriage can pass.

One of the passe the carriage iecognizes Victor. It's SCH~!IDT. a
former ctassmat•
                     SCHIYIIDT
            we;It's Frankenstein the graverobber:
            Theis dosed Victor. Half the city is
            dyi 1k the fruit while it's ripe!

                    VICTOR
            D0<nidt! Head of the class' ~o one left
            to ,your quackery''

                   SCHMIDT
             Yoding for Hell. Frankenstein!

                    VICTOR
            I k
WITH VICTOFRlAGE:

He urges his ho,ard. A small wooden sign announces lngolstadt .

GUARDS man 1. A young LIElJTE.:.'fAl'-ff stops him.

                    VICTOR
            I'mdan. Lieutenant.

                    LIEUTENANT
            We-.d physicians with the rest. The
            pes;; no respector of profession sir.
            She wish to !eave at a later time, vou'll
            havmit to an inspection.           •

                   VICTOR
            I tawaming under advisement. Now
            ma)

                  GCARD
            GOQ you .

..\ demented FE.'ICT1~1 hideously pock marked leaps up on :he
side of Victor's 's clear th;:;,t she was once bcautifui: ·


                                              (CON1TNCED)
•
    !'-<1 - THE '.E\V LABOR.A. TORY · DAY
    The center of che garret room is occupied by a c:-are. \ ;ctor
    ceremoniously ope;s it with a crowbar. At last the sides collapse re\ea:irg
    a gleaming copper vessei. more than large enough ro hold a man.

    The top is hinged and fitted with rwo iarge giass portholes for observation
    Below the great copper vessel is a heating apparatus. Victor eyes the
    "Revival Vessel" with delight.

    PAN L•.\BOR,~TORY: TIME LAPSE
    Papers are spread everywhere -- diagrams. formulas. and strange occui t
     .
    svmbols. Victor's excitement is near hvsteria
                                          ,
                                                  as he reads from V,/ a!dman s
    secret journal.

                                  VICTOR (V .0.)
                 Waldman knew everything -- he could renew
                 life where death had vanquished.

    PA1'i LABORATORY: TIME LAPSE# 2

    Above the copper tank now are lamps. mirrors. and crystals. The
    apparatus above turns slowly. bathing the inside of the tank in a pulsating
    rainbow spectrum.

    Various animals scurry in cages. The eels swim in a large aquarium.

                                  VICTOR (V .0.)
                 I therefore direct my battle against Death itself.
                 Following in the steps marked by Waldman. I
                 will pioneer a new way . .'-lothing else matters.
                 not even mv, Elizabeth -- until I achieve mv .
                 goal. God willing, this is our only hope.

    INSERT- AN UNOPENED STACK OF LETTERS FRO~f ELIZA.BETH

    He shoves them into his satchel. He downs laudanum. unshaven and
    dischevelled.

    EXT - STREET. POV VICTOR - DAY

    The D~th Wagon stops in front of Victor's house. The hooded driver
    yanks a body off the cart and quickly carries it up Victor's stairs.



                                                            ( CONTI:-,iCED,
    co~T['.','CED:
    P-\:--i L ...\BOR..-\TORY TI\lE L-\PSE:: 2


•   The lab has become a makeshift morgue. Bodies are in vanous states '.cf
    ctissecrion. Victor is unkempt and filthy in his bloodstained smock. He
    probes skuiis, removes organs and dissects tissues.
                               VICTOR (V .0.J
                 When I found so astonishing a power placed
                 within my hands I began the creation of a
                 human being.
    Victor has fastened a battery to the face of a corpse. It grimaces horri bl:
    when he applies current. Victor grimaces back in macabre mimicry.

    EXT - LAKE GENEVA - DAY
    Mont Blanc towers in the distance. Elizabeth rows a few strokes and leans
    back in the boat. Henry is writing a poem.

                                  HENRY
                  There. It's finished. Would you like to hear it?



•   Elizabeth ponders Mont Blanc and her own sout not responding. After a
    moment she realizes he's spoken to her.

                                 ELIZABETH
                  I'm sorry Henry -- I was a million miles away.
                  What were you saying?                    ·

                                  HENRY
                  I was saying that Ingolstadt is considerably
                  closer than a million miles.

                                ELIZABETH
                  You were not. You were going to read me your
                  poem.

     Henry sits up straight. clearing his throat.

                                   HENRY
                   ·• To awake in a momingless morning, bathed
                  in a sunless light ... to fear no more the ni2htless
                  night« .. ''                                 -




                                                              <CONTI~l:ED J
COSTI:-,..iCED:
                             ~L'Z       r:iE~H
                             t:. l ...\._,, 1
              How far exactly :s it to [ngoistadt'

                               HE>iRY
              I wasn't finished:
She splashes him playfully •~- then slides over to kiss his hand.
                              ELIZABETH
              Forgive me. It was beautiful Henry. You're
              wasting your genius on me.

                              HENRY
              How long since you've heard from him?

                              ELIZABETH
              I've written every day and not a word in return.

                              HENRY
              Considering the terms you parted on ...

                                ELIZABETH
              No.. .it's more than that. There are rumors of a
              terrible epidemic in Ingolsradt. Jean Claude
              finally admitted it.... Oh Henry. I can't stop
              thinking about it!

                               HENRY
              I could be in Ingolstadt in a fortnight.
                               ELIZABETH
              Oh would you? Could I ask it 0 I know
              something's terribly wrong!

                               HENRY
              I'U be gone by the morning.

 She hugs him warmly, almost capsizing the boat.

 INT - SLAUGHTERHOUSE - DAY
  A pointed hammer THl:DS into the brain of a sow. The "KlLLI:--;G
  FLOOR" WORKER is a dreg of humanity. his face deformed.

                                                     .
  Victor watches unmoved as the worker splits the oi2·s
                                            ~       _,  throat and be:h,
    The biood is caprnred in a large trough. Fetai pigs are exposed by his


•   knif.c and are collected. The worker \aughs. exposing his biackened teet'.1
    \ ictor receives them in a bioody burlap bag filled with ice.

    I'.'o1 - VICTOR'S HOL"SE · '.',"IGHT
    Victor places the last of forty fetal pigs in a crate of ice in the lab and
    covers it. Passing a mirror he's physicaily startled by his own :mage. He
    stands and fingers his filthy beard and smock and stares into his bioodshoc
    eyes.
                                 VICTOR (V .0.)
                  Sometimes on the very brink I failed. Yet still I
                  dung to the hope which the next day or the next
                  hour might realize.
    A K.."-iOCK at the door startles him. He looks out the window.

    !NT - ST AIR CASE - CONTINUING ACTION

     Victor opens the door. Four monks carry Francois up the stairs. He's
     mortally wounded and half his face is horribly mauled by an axe.

     One hands him a scrap of paper -- Victor's name written in his own hand.

                                  VICTOR
                  The bandits.

     The monk nods.
     !'.'ff - LABOR.Lti.TORY - CONTINt:ING ACTION

     Victor rolls a corpse off his dissecting table to make room for Francois,

     The monks leave immediately. appalled and making the sign of the cross at
     the bodies on all sides.

     Victor listens to Francois' heart for a sign of life. ~othing.

                                   VICTOR
                  If it was God"s wiil you saved my life ,.. now I
                  shall I repay the debt.

      Victor goes into rapid action. He lights the burners beneath the tank and
      turns :hem full. Covering the body in ice he begins injecting medicines
      into the dead man·s abdomen. throat and temples.

                                                             ( CONTINl.:ED)
    CO '.\iT I :--i lED:
                                      \ ICTOR IV 0.1
                     I can oniy guess rhat the mi:1:ture in the revival
                     vessei is correcL Waidman·s notes are
                     incompiete.

    Fetal pi gs are wrung three by three through an apparatus from which a
    pink liquid tlows into the tank.

                                      VICTOR (V .0.)
                     I am substituting the vi cal fluids of iced fetal
                    swine for the cattle blood that Waldman used ...
                    I believe the freshness of the serum in which
                    the body regenerates is the key. a problem my
                    reluctant mentor never fully understood.

    Victor hastily sews the ghastly wounds on the left side of the man's face.
    He furiously sketches. making notes.

    He rolls him over to the tank. Testing the temperature with his own hand.
    Victor slides him into the living broth.

                                      VICTOR (V.0.)
I                   I will accelerate the revival process with the use
                    of eels, which can deliver an electrical shock
                    strong enough to stimulate the heart to beat
                    again.

    He then releases a dozen eels.



    Through the glass porthole. the dead man floats like an unborn baby in the
    warm and watery womb. Eels sting the naked body with ELECTRJC
    venom again and again. A leg twitches. but no more.

    The rainbow spectrum pulsates. bathing his face in celestial beauty. Victor
    pumps bubbles into the serum steadily.

                                   VICTOR (V .0.)
                   The light and cry!tals create an e!ectroma2netic
                   excitation. The origin of this knowledge i;
                   occult -- I do not compl~te!y understand ir...

    The sutured wounds on his face and arm are hideous. the work rushed anc
    crude. He rages.


                                                                          ... 1 .........."ED•,
                                                                  ;\ 'roNT''\iT
                                                                       -
    CO'.'iTI:---il'ED:
                                   VICTOR
                   Jealous God' ls Death so precious?::

    The sound of a HEARTBEAT :s heard. and the corpse rises up with a
    CRY from another world. The lid bashes Victor's head. who falis to the
    floor.

    Eels writhe around him. Vict~r receives a terrible shock. foaming ar the
    mouth.

    Sitting up in the tank now gasping and choking. the woodcutter opens his
    eyes and lets out a withering SCREA.'v1 of pain. He lunges om of the tank
    and sprawls unconscious on the floor. gasping for air.

    Side by side they lay prostrate. the only sounds LABORED BREATHLSG.
    and THUNDER in the distance. The lamps swing wildly. filling the lab
    with dancing colored lights. Victor slowly comes to. feeling the hot breach
    of the other upon him.

                                   VICTOR
                  My friend! h's Victor Frankenstein. You're
                  alive! I have saved you!

    But the response is another piercing CRY of pain.

                                 VICTOR
                  Do you know who you are? Francois!

    The revived man makes unintelligible animal like sounds. He writhes on
    the floor hyperventilating. Convulsions begin. Half his face is normal --
    half mutilated.

    Victor beholds the wretch, the miserable monster he's created. He is
    reviled.

    Victor retrieves a long wool cloak to cover him -- but the delerious
    CRE,~.TURE pulis his creator to him in a vise like grip.

    Victor can't escape from the powerful arms. Victor is repulsed and
    fearful. his own face now covered with blood.



•   The Creature falls faint and his captive escapes. Victor looks down at hrs
    work in revulsion. shaking violently. Only the hideously injured side oi
    the Creature's face is seen.
    CO'.'-iT I :--iCED:
    THE G RE..; T O.~.K IS BLASTED BY LIGHT.'ii.'iG.

    Victor's head is splitting in hot white pain. He staggers to his room.

    The Creature shivers under the cloaic. his once handsome face deathly
    pale. his eye sockets and lips a sickly purple. foam bubbling from his
    mouth. The left side of his face is a hideous patchwork..

    It-;1 - VICTOR'S ROOM • NIGHT
    Victor gulps an overdose of laudanum and falls down on the bed ·· his
    head splitting with pain. He lapses into oblivion.

                                                              CUT TO: BLACK
    EXT - STREET - DAY [ VICTOR'S '.\IIGHT:MARE ]
    A much healthier. clean shaven Victor leaves his house. The world is
    bathed in a pink and golden light ORl:f."ffALS in exotic costumes fill the
    streets. An old FLOWER PEDDLER smiles and thrusts a bouquet at
    Victor.

                                  FLOWER PEDDLER
                   A bouquet for the lady sir?

    Victor smells them.

                                   VICTOR
                   Hmmm, they're fragrant. But there's no lady
                   for me to give them too.

                                  FLOWER PEDDLER
                   One never knows sir. One never knows ...

    At that moment Victor catches the sight of a BEAlTTIFCL WO:-.VL.\~ over
    the old hag's shoulder. He walks toward her. straining his eyes.

                                 FLO\VER PEDDLER
                  The bouquet sir?

                                  VICTOR
                  Yes. The bouquet!


•   Victor hands her a coin and takes the flowers. He turns and :he beautiful
    woman is much closer. He runs toward her though it seems minutes pass.



                                                          ( CONTI?'-iLED)
CONTI .:--iCED:
At iast shes ciose enough to recognize. ':learning with an angel's srnlie. :rs
Eiizabeth.
                               ViCTOR
              Eiizabeth!.

The last ten feet seem like a hundred. At last they embrace.

                              VICTOR
                  .                .            .
              It's You. oh God it's YOU ... I need YOU so much.

They kiss like they've never kissed before. He hands her the bouquet. 5 he
inhales the fragrance. but the blossoms wilt immediately. She turns pale.

                               VICTOR
              What's wrong darling ?

He pulls her nearer. The bouquet drops to the street in a black heap .
Elizabeth's eyes cloud. Her lips turn blue. She collapses in Victor's arms.

Petrified. he lifts her up. The flower peddler rums to him and smiles. Her
face has become a skull. Looking down at the lifeless body in his arms. he
sees not Elizabeth •· but his long dead mother in her funeral shroud.

                              VICTOR
             Mother!

Worms begin to crawl out of her nose. eyes and mouth. Victor gasps.
dropping her on the street. At his feet lays a pile of blackened bones.

Orientals in bizarre masks of Death gather around. They SCREA.,'\,1 at hi rn
like a hated criminal in languages he cannot understand. Snakes of a doze:1
species writhe through the bones at his feet.

INT - VICTOR'S BEDROO?vt - MOR.."ITNG

Victor gives a muted scream from inside bis nightmare. Still huddled on
the floor and bathed in sweat, the sound of FOITTSTEPS approaches.

Victor cowers on the floor covering his eyes. The door opens.

                              VOICE
             Victor" Are you there"




                                                        l CONTI~CED)
CO :--iT I _'.;l"ED:                                                    5A-,
                                                       . H       ~,
v ctcr looks up. his face distorted and pouring SV¥eaL ;t's enr; L,ef\3,

POV VICTOR [ H.ALLl"CI)jATIO'.'i J
\ictor heais Clerval's voice but sees ,he face and body of the hideously
ugly Creature. He crawls across the floor to his saber.

                                HE;-./RYi CREATCRE
                 Victor what in God's name have you done to
                 yourself?

                                VICTOR
                 Stay away, wretch!

Victor reaches for the saber but the Creature : Henry plucks it off the wali.

                               HENRY iCREA Tl:RE
                Victor! It's me Henry. Do you know where you
                are?

The Creature J Henry kneels down beside Victor. The once proud Victor
crawls into the corner. his mind broken. Victor has pulled himseif into the
fetal position. He passes out.

THE STAIRCASE:
Henrv , ascends toward the locked laboratorv. -- drawn bv
                                                        . some inner
dread. He tries several keys. Finally the lock opens. Some powerful force
blocks his way. Drawing back with all his force. he rams the door --
falling into the room.

I:'.'ff - LA.BORA TORY - CONTI:'l"l"ING ACTION

The Creature is gone.

Henry rolls over, staring into the hideous face of a corpse. He leaps up in
fright --

And beholds the tangle of dismembered bodies in Victor's laboratory, He
gags, retching. He staggers out. completely traumatized.

EXT - STREETS OF INGOLST ADT - DAY
The Creamre wanders through the back alleys of the town in his great
cloak. frightened and hiding at the sight of anvone. He's cornered bv :"' o
DOGS, The Creature is terrified of :he worid ·he's been born mto, ·
 Henrv drives roward the gates of ingolstaat. Victor is bound w 1 ch ropes
 iust behind him :n the cab. He babbles de!iriousiy. fighting against the
J

restraints.

                              HENRY
              We're going home old friend. Don't fight it.

                              VICTOR
                               . Ludvi!!:- We must destrov.
                                          1
              Hideous: Obscenirv'
              him!

Tears well up in Henry's eyes.

EXT - GATES OF INGOLSTADT - DAY
The coach halts at the roadblock. The GtJARD checks inside. Victor
BABBLES.
                             Gl'ARD
             This one is infected. Pull over.

                              HENRY
             This man has no pox!

                              Gt;ARD
             A· physician will decide that. Close the gate!

The guard blows his WHISTLE. Henry rries to get past. The guard leaps
up to take the reins.

                             HENRY
             This man is my friend!

Henry drives a boot in his face. Another guard leaps up with his saber as
Henry whips the team toward the closing gate. Henry's lashes his face.
knocking him to the ground.

Henry leans out and chops the gate keeper's winch ropes with his own
sword. The gates open and he speeds Victor through to freedom.

 INT · VICTOR'S ABA~TIONED HOCSE . '.'/IGITT
\VORK.\tE:'-. are dismantling and packing Victor's things.



                                                        \i(O"'TT'-:Y"-D
                                                             !'1.L'ILl::. )
    CO'.'<TI :--.;LED:

                                    \\ORK.\!A,'.\
                   They say he went stark raving mad". took him
                   away bound hand and foot.

                                     WO RK~lA.'.'i if: 2
                    It's the devil's kitchen I teil you.

    A CRASH O.C. startles them. They kick open the door to the !aborarnry.

    THE LAB - THEIR POV
    All that remains is the Revival Vessel. Suddenly it's up ended by a
    powerful force. The Creature is revealed pushing it over in a rage.


                   Mother of God!

    The Creature opens his arms beseeching. He tries to speak. GLTTER.\L
    SOUNDS emit. The workmen back away and run down the stairs.

    Alone, the Creature drops to his knees. There before him is Victor's


•   satchel. He picks it up as if having a glimmer of a memory. Clutching it .
    he climbs out the window.

    EXT - VICTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUING ACTION

    The Creature drops over a wall and hides in the shadows. Wheels of a
    wagon roil by. He follows it and slides into the back under a tarp. It's the
    Death Cart. Its BELL tolls as it heads away.

    EXT - GA TES OF INGOLSTADT - '.'iIGHT

    The Death Cart passes through the gates. unchallenged by the guards.

    EXT - OlJTSIDE THE W,U.LS - NIGHT
    The Creature slides out from under the tarp into the burial pit. \1ore
    bodies are dumped on top of him.

    EXT - B CRlAL PIT - NIGHT
    The Creature rises from under a mound of bodies. He waiks on the
    corpses toward a WORKER preparing to torch the pit. The Creature's
    skin is ashen. his lips purple. The left side of his face is a horrible
    patchwork.

                                                           ( CONTI'.'il"ED;
Seeine; the Creature the worker retreats in terror He srnnrbles and :·a1 1s
nto the pit. His torch ignites the bodies.

The Creature emerges through the infemd and walks to freedom.

E.TI - FOREST - MORNING
The Creature wanders through the Black Forest. He comes upon a berry
bush and instinctively begins to eat He picks frantically. gorging himse!f.
The sun shines on his j!,lice smeared face. He tries a snail and spits it out
with disgust.

The BIRDS sing above and he tries to imitate them. but withdraws r:midly
into the shadows as he hears an unfamiliar sound. CHOPPI.'iG echoes.

E..TI - WOODCLTIER'S CAMP - MOR."iING
The Creature hides watching a Woodcutter swing his axe. The TREE falls.
The Woodcutter busies himself trimming the branches.

The Creature inspects the Woodcutter's belongings. He tries the sausage.
spitting it out with disgust. Next he nibbles a carrot. Delicious. He devours
the entire bunch. The Crearure is a vegetarian.

He strikes a spark on the tinderbox. A flame. Amused. he examines rhe
fire. Thrusting his hand into the warmth he's burned.

He flees into the forest crying softly.
E.TI - FOREST - NIGITTFALL
A doe and her fawn stand stoically against the elements. R..\I:'.'i drips from
the branches and the sky is dark. In a pile of wet leaves. the Creature
curls up in slumber.

EXT - ROAD LEADING TO A Si'vfALL VILL.\GE - DAY
The Creature hears the ~ay LAUGIITER OF CHILDREN. Allured. he
follows the sound through the trees. At last he spies them through the
dense foliage and smiles.
    ro~'T'''l"CD·
    ._.'>I~.u........
                 .i,,.,,   •




•
    POV CREATl."RE

    Kl:--iDERGARTE.'i CHILDRE:--i PLAY .4- BQ\VLI.'iG G..o..:.-IE. iOii::ig
    stones from a nearoy creek into a hoie.

    A little girl is rhe first to see the Creature. but is :iot alarmed. She offers
    him a flower. He smells ir •· and sneezes. The children laugh. He smiies.

    A iittle boy hands the Creature a stone. Watching the game. the Crearure
    picks up a stone and rolis it toward the goal himself. He scores. The
    children clap.

    ON A GRASSY IC~OLL · CHILDREN IN VIEW

    A TEEi"¾JAGE GIRL A.i.'iD TTVO TEENAGE BOYS are smoking a pipe.
    The children's laughter reminds them that they're supposed to be
    watching. The girl stands and sees the Creature. She screams.

    BELOW -- THE GAME STOPS

    The Creature looks up. His smile fades. The boys charge down the hill


•   throwing rocks. The first stone hits the Creature. Another strikes him
    squarely in the head. Blood flows.

    Panic follows. The girl grabs up her younger brothers and sisters. They
    flee.

    The Creature watches them disappear. Sad and confused. he holds up the
    rock and flower. He just wanted to play.

    EXT - A RL"SHING RIVER - DAY

    The Creature kneels beside a RlVER. He douses his wounded head in a
    small calm eddy. He sees his face in a reflecting pool for the first time. He
    gazes in curiosity, and then revulsion.

    He dashes the reflection with a great roc!c, crying out and throwing one
    after the other at ,he image of his face •- which only appears again after
    the water subsides.

    He wanders down ,he river crazed with misery .



•
    EXT - WATERF ..\LL - DA. Y·


•   \Vater crashes down onto jagged rocks below. The C:reature ,aKes a :7nai
    look around. He cioses his aeathly eyes and readies himself to leap imo
    oblivion.

    The sound of a GIRL L.\CGHING stops him. The Creature hides behind a
    rock. An old PAPA and young HILDA appear upstream. He has a rifle
    over his shoulder.

                                 PAPA
                 Stav• back from the water Hilda!

                                HILDA
                 Don't worry Papa. It's not deep here!

    She steps out on a rock. The Creature looks on. Her heel slips and she
    plunges into the water. She's swept under, surfacing with a SCREA~l.

    The man is in panic. The deadly FALLS ROARS ahead.

                                 PAPA

•                  Hilda ! Grab hold a rock!

    The old man runs along the stream trying to catch up. On the other side
    the Creature appears and plunges in after her.

                                 HILDA
                 Thank Heaven! Hurry man! Hurry!

    The Creature pulls through the rushing water. At the last second he grabs
    her long blond hair and saves her from the falls. He's dose to drowning
    himself.

    As he lifts her to the bank safely the girl SHRIEKS. Hilda sees the
    Creature's horrid face for the first time.

    The old man arrives. Terrified, he shoulders his rifle.

    The Creature cowers -- the SHOT slams into his shouider. He sinks beiow
    the surface and blood reddens the water.



•   Hilda continues screaming. His body goes over the fails like a dead snake .




                                                          ( COiSTI:"il'ED J
    CONTI>iCED:
    EXT - FR...\>'KE>STEI> \fA.SSfO:',; - DAY


•   The coacn stops in front of the mansion. The family turns our to greer
    them. eager to see Victor and Henry return.

                                 \VILLIE
                  Victor~ Did you bring any specimens?

    Henry c!imbs down dirty and exhausted.

                                 HENRY
                                 ( grave)
                        Send Willie in the house.

    Victor doesn't tum or move in rhe window of the coach. They realize
    something is terribly wrong.

    Jean Claude takes the confused child away. The others approach. Henry
    motions them to stay back.

    INT - CARRIAGE - DAY

    Victor is catatonic. Henry begins removing the restraints on his hands.
    neck and legs.

                                 HENRY
                 We can't have Elizabeth seeing you like this old
                 man.

    Henry gently wipes away the foam from Victor's mouth and removes the
    blood and vomit stained smock. He replaces it with his own jacket.

    E.,TI - COACH - DAY
    He helps Victor from the coach, holding him up -· his legs completely
    give way.

                                HENRY
                You'll have to help me. He's bad a time of it.

    Alfonse is shocked - speechless. Elizabeth's heart breaks. She's the first to
    run to Victor's side. He cannot walk .



•
L'\T . \-L--\'.'-iSIO0 · OCTSIDE SICKR00'.-,1 - DAY
Alfonse paces outsioe the closed door of rhe sickroom while Henry sprav. is
in a chair. exhausted.

                               ALFONSE
             How did it come to this Henry? I must have the
             particulars.
                              HE:SRY
                     ( unable to find words )
             His research ... whatever he was doing .. J don't
             know. You'll have to ask Victor.

                               ALFONSE
              Did he find this Waldman? What did you see?

                              HENRY
              I don't know what it was. I don't want to know.
              Monsieur Frankenstein.

 Frustrated, Alfonse knocks on the DOOR and walks into the sick room.

 INT - M.Ai'ISION - SICKROOM - DAY
 DOCTOR KREMPE examines Victor, locked in a fetal ball. Krempe is of
 Alfonse's generation, with a face indelibly sad. Elizabeth holds Victor's
 hand as Krempe pokes his patient with steel probes for some kind of
 response.
                              ALFONSE
                           (grim realization)
               This is the bed his mother died in.
 Krempe pulls his lancet and a small metal cup from his bag. Elizabeth
 grasps Victor's hand. K.rempe cuts below Victor's ear capturing the
 flowing blood in the cup. Victor doesn't flinch.

                              KREMPE
              You could hold this cup for me, Ms. uvenza.

                              ELIZABETH
              He's already weak. Dr. Krempe. Are you
              certain bieeding him is proper?



                                                        ( CONTI:'.'il"ED \
CONTI.:'-iCED:
                             ALFO~SE
             Dr. Krempe has been practicing since you ·J1ere
             a child Elizabeth.

                              KRE:.V1PE
             To tell the truth I don't hoid much hope.
             Nervous collapse such as this has a poor. poor
             prognosis.

                             ELIZABETH
             And what's that supposed to mean?

                             KREMPE
             It means '.vfademoiselle. that this young man
             will most likely spend the remainder of a very
             short life in the asylum at Evian.

Elizabeth grabs Krempe's hand with the lancet.

                             ELIZABETH
                               ( livid )
             Bleed yourself "physician"! I'll tend to him!

                           KREMPE
            I suppose we shall all suffer female physicians
            one day, Mademoiselle.
Krempe is happy to be relieved of an impossible case.

                             ALFONSE
            Elizabeth! Please don't take this upon yourself.
            I'll hire nurses.

                             ELIZABETH
            Uncle. I must!

Alfonse studies his remarkable adopted daughter for a moment and then
nods his assent. Krempe bows and makes a hasty exit.

Il\11 - VICTOR'S SICKROOM - DAY

Alfonse and Henry lift Victor into a great copper bathtub. He is still coiled
tightly in a fetal ball. Elizabeth dumps a bucket of ice on his bare body.

His bodv. shudders violent!v.. His silence becomes a \VHI~fPER. Alfonse
reacts to Victor's first signs of life. He looks at Elizabeth. Hes in awe.

                                                         ICONTL'-iCED,
                                                         '             C
    CONTI~CED:
                                  ELIZ..\BETH


•                His heart's strong. He can s,and it.
                                   (shouting)
                 Where are the rowels. damn you. Jean Claude!

    Jean Claude appears with steaming rowels. Elizabeth cradies Victor's head
    to her chest. Henry comes to the door.
                                  HENRY
                         ( a reluctant admission)
                  He spoke in his fever. He believes he's pursued
                  by a monster that he himself created.

                                   ELIZABETH
                  The only monster stalking Victor is himself.
                  You were a loyal and brave friend. Henry -- [
                  only hope he knows what you've done for him --
                  and for me.

    She kisses him on the cheek.

     !NT - BEDROOM • NIGHT
     Victor shivers in bed under the quilts. Only Elizabeth is left at his side.
     She quietly locks the door. She pulls off her dress and then her under
     garments. Crawling in becl she holds Victor close to her.

                                    ELIZABETH
                          (talking softly to a baby)
                  So cold and pale. like a statue.

                                                   . shiverina."'
                                              - stoos
      As she kisses and caresses him. he s!owlv

                                   VICTOR
                           ( in the smallest whisper)
                   Mother ...

                                    ELIZABETH
                   She's here .. .I'm here.

      She brings him even closer to her. kissing his matted hair .




•
    EXT - DO\V'.\STREA_\1 - FULL \100'.'<'

    The Creature 'S sorawied face down in the mud on the bank. His satche:
    floats in a nearby· eddy. He moans. coughing water. His wounded arm is
    permanently maimed. He raises his head up from the muck.

    POV CREATURE
    The moon rises above a field of maize. A small farmhouse is in rhe
    distance. Its windows alight. smolce wisps from the chimney.

    EXT - MAIZE FIELD - ~IGHT

    Silhouetted in the moonlight the Creature stumbles through the sraiks. His
    good arm cradles the other.

    I:N1 - FARMHOUSE POV CREATURE - :,.llGHT

    The Creature peers through the window at the scene within -- a hovel. A
    poor family is gathered around the fire. AGATHA. the young mother of
    the family darns a sock. Her husband FELlX repairs a broken axe.

    The pain of poverty is marked in the faces of all but their six year old
    daughter BERTHA and sightless Grandfather MARTIN. The child sits on
    his knee. The old man is telling the child a story. acting out the parts.

                                 MARTIN
                It was not the wind that cried but the ghost of
                the mother -- searching the darkness for her
                children!

                                 AGATHA
                Grandfather stop! You;\l give her nightmares.

                                 BERTHA
                I'm not afraid. It's All Saint's Eve.

    Felix isn't amused. The Creature ducks down and moves around to the
    other window.

                                 MARTIN
                I frightened ,vou with the same storv, when ,vou



•
                were her age. So. Then the ground be~an to
                tremble.                               -
CRE ...\ TCRE S POV
He begins to shake the child on his knees. She's giggles. The Cieacure. 1s
caught up i:1 her mirth. forgets himself He rises up in the window.

The child SCREAMS. She points at the window. The Creature's face
contorts in fear.

EXT - FARYIHOL"SE - CONTINCI'.'<'G ACTION
 Felix opens the door with an axe in his hand. He surveys the yard.

                            FELIX
             There's nothing here.

He doses the door - revealing the Creature behind it.

 EXT • PIGSTY • ~1GHT
The Creature crawls into a pigsty adjacent to the cottage. The PIGS inside
grunt but do not alarm the household. He leans against the wall exhausted.
A VIOLIN begins to play inside.

The Creature listens, enraptured by the music. As he presses his head
against the wail to better hear the music, a bit of mortar falls away, ..\ ra,
of light issues from within. He peers through the crack.

 CREATl:llli'S POV - INSIDE THE HOUSE

The family scene reveals itself. The old man laughs and strikes up another
rune on the VIOLIN. After a time the Creature replaces the chunk of
mortar and falls back exhausted against the pigst-y wall. His wounded arm
makes him wince. The MUSIC FADES.

EXT - PIGSTY · MOR."fING
Agatha dumps a bucket of SLOPS into the pigsty. The Creature watches
from his hiding place. He tries to comprehend.

Felix struggles to chop firewood.

                              AGATHA
             I don't know if we have the flour for another
             loaf.



                                                       (CONTI:'.'il'EDl
CO~Tr:--;cED:
He dumps the few pieces of wood against the co:tage.

                            FELIX
             I can do no more. Are these the hands of a
             farmer?

He shows her his blistered and bleeding hands.

                             AGATHA
             If you hadn't gotten Father out of Paris he'd
             have been thrown in a dungeon and tortured.

Agatha breaks down in tears. Felix remains callous.

                             FELIX
             We are exiles in our own country. It's only
             vour love and devotion that makes me endure .
             •
They embrace in a loving kiss.

ON THE CREATURE:
Watching. Moved with undiscovered emotion by this tenderness between
man and woman -- husband and wife -·

TIGHT ON FELIX'S AXE:
The Creature's hand slowly wraps around the handle.

EXT - HOUSE • NIGHT

Smoke curls from the chimney. By the side of the house. the woodpile has
been multiplied many times over, piled to the roof all and around. :\1ore
wood than any human could possibly chop •· a magical. impossible feat.

IN'T - HOUSE POV CREATl}RE . N1GHT

Through the chink in the wail Agatha is seen instructing Bertha in her
letters on a small slate board. Felix and Grandfather taik beside the fire.

                             FELIX
            There's wood here to last a month ...

                             BERTHA
            Ir's the Good Spirit of the Forest and his elves.
            Papa ...
CO:-,..iTI'.'iCED:



                                 AGATHA
               You aet tc vour work little elf. Sound the
                     "'
               letters ...
                            .
                                BERTHA
               Fr .. eh.,.nd. Friend.

                                AGATHA
               ;'low you're getting it. Friend.

She erases the word.

EXT - PIG PEN POV CREATl'RE - NIGHT

The scene inside disappears as the chink of mortar is repiaced in the walL
The Creature mouths the word " friend " slowly and softly again and again
in a rough VOICE. He delights at the sound of his first spoken word. A
PIG grunts in reply. The Crearure repeats the word to his first friend.

EXT - ESTATE GARDEN - DAY

Elizabeth spoonfeeds Victor pudding. He sits in a lawn chaise wrapped in
blankets -- still traumatized.

                            ELIZABETH
              Oh come on, Victor - say it. Pudding. Puu --
              ding.

It dribbles down his chin. He says nothing.

                              ELIZABETH
              Don't you remember? You used to say when we
              were children that all you would ever eat when
              we grew up was pudding. h's your favorite.
              Say it.

Willie runs up in his paper '.'l'apoleon's cap and wooden sword. He's
hoiding a tiny grass snake.

                             WILLIE
              Look. Victor' A specimin:
    He holds ir up an inch from Victor's face. His giazed eyes sudden!~ fcc:1s .


•   FL~SH TO: EELS

    Stinging a body in the Revival Vessel. The body is Victor's.

    RESC~1E GARDE:--/:
    Victor reels back flailing with his hands. Then ... he stands. \Villie is
    amazed. The boy goes running.

                                  WILLIE
                   Papa I He's standing up! He's standinf: 1

    Filled with emotion Elizabeth reaches up and rakes his hand. He focuses on
    her for the first time. He struggles to form the word--

                                  VICTOR
                  Elizabeth ...

    EXT - FARM - DAY



•   The Creature DlGS potatoes. His bad arm is not able to move far from his
    side, but the hand can grasp. ~fartin stands by the doorway. hearing the
    activity but seeing nothing. The Creature puts WORDS 1.:-,rro PHR.\SES.
    repeating them over and over with the words " Fire ... Bread... ~{other ...
    Violin rt.

                                  MARTIN
                 Hello friend!

    The Creature ·cums startled. The oid man continues to smile in spite of the
    horrid face.

                                  CREATVRE
                              ( surprising clarity)
                 Hello friend. It is a good day.
    The Creature smiles back. It is.

    INT - FAR.\1HOCSE - NIGHT
    The family sits at table over rheir increasingly abundant fare. \ large oie
    is served by Agatha. They're in earnest discu~sion. even little Berrh:i. ·
    Grandfather fiddles with his violin as he sits.


                                                               i CONTI~CEDl
                             BERTHA
             The Good Spirit of the Forest can only be seen
             by the pure in heart Father.

                              FELIX
                            ( sardonic)
             And then the "elves'' harvest the fie!ds. clean
             the stables and mend the wail? I think it's time
             we stopped this ridiculous game.

                              \1ARTIN
             Let it be son. I have spoken with him.

                              FELIX
             Don't fill the child's head with lies. You've
             caused enough trouble in our lives already.

Felix retires to the hearth with his food and eats alone.

EXT - PIGSTY - NIGHT

The Creature slides into the pigsty and his bed of straw by the cottage.
Listening to the VIOLIN he gnaws contentedly 011 a turnip. He wiggles his
feet to the time of the music.

Opening Victor's satchel he pulls out one of Elizabeth's letters. He starts ro
read in the moonlight. The page is upside down. He rights it.

                              CREATURE (V.0.)
                          (struggling with each word)
             '' My Dearest Victor ... 1 trust this finds you
             well and your mysterious work proceeding.
             Henry and little William are hiking today to
             Mont Blanc. Willie says he will live there in a
             palace of ice and rule the world ... "

EXT - RIVER • DAY

Grandfather Martin sits on a rock by the riverbank playing a happy rune,
The Creature moves to within a few yards .

                             .\-1.ARTIN
             Hello stranger! \Vho's there?




                                                       tCONTl);l'EDl
    The Creature shrinks in 'ear. He made no sound.

                                      . ,A R~·'i
                                      V     I l.
                  I heard you coming a long way oiL . .it's 'lot
                     . to hide from a blind man You
                  easY                          .   know ...

    The Creature speaks normally.
                                      CREATl7RE
                  Hello friend. It is a good day.

                                      :VlARTI~
                  Well. you're here now ... sit down and talk
                  awhile.
    The Creature cautiously approaches and sits across from the old man.

                                      MARTIN
                  Don't say much do you?

                                     CREATURE
                  I'm alone .. .I have no one to talk to. But I can


•                 read.

     The Creature pulls one of Elizabeth's letters from the satcheL

                                   MARTIN
                   I ·can no longer read. My eyes have failed me.

     The Creature looks on him with pity.

                                  \1ARTIN
                  But [ have manv                   .
                                 . books. and You could read
                  them to me if you like.

                                 CREA Tl.RE
                  That would please me.

      The Creature puts the bow in the old man's hand. He Hl:"~1S a lirt!e.

                                       CREATuRE
                   Play ... please.




•
      He picks up his fiddle and plays .
                                                                              7L

    EXT - EST..\ TE COCRTY ..\RD · 0 ..1. Y
    Henrv is reaching Victor to use his saber again, Victor keeps dropping ,tie
    sabe; -~ his balance unsteady. Henry presses his fingers into ,he prooer
    gnp like a novlce.
                                HE~RY
                  There. En garde!

    Victor's saber hangs limply at his side. Henry is frustrated.

                                   HENRY
                  Victor. did I ever tel! you that you have the
                  face of a pig? En garde!

    Victor remains stoic.

                                   HENRY
                  And do you recall Elizabeth's other suitor.
                  Captain Decroix? The poet? He never existed.
                  We made him up.

     Victor's face cracks a tiny. smile. His saber springs to life and he slashes ar
     Henry. Stunned, Henry attacks and the duel is on.

     Willie comes running at the sound of the steel.

     Elizabeth appears on the balcony to watch. Alfonse joins her.

                                   ALFONSE
                   I see your patient has finally recovered.

     Elizabeth kisses the old man warmly.

     EXT - SNOW COVERED FA&\1 - !'<1GHT

     The Creature sits in the full moonlight. Victor's satchel beside him. He
     reads aloud from one of Elizabeth's letters. His diction is almost perfect.

                                     CREATURE (V .0)
                   " Dear Victor. Autumn is arrived in Geneva.
                   Our lake is my lover in your absence. l drift
                                               .           .
                   and dream of .,vou. The vcrv scent of vou is on



•
                   my '.,ps ... even those delicious places which I
                   shall not mention. Come home Victor. Come. ,,


                                                               ( CONTI;-iCED \
    ro N'TI'•y•ED·
    ·._     """" t...-     •

    Stran2eiv aroused. the Creature carefuily foids 'he letter back :nto ,he
    e;wel;~. He opens Vlc:or's journaL He studies :he "creauon' diagrams
    Victor has drawn. He intensely stOciies the rough likeness or· himself rn
    Victor's last sketch.

    1:--.T - FRA~KE;'/STE!N \1A'.'iSION · '.'ilGITT
    A CHRISTMAS PARIT is in fuil swing. At the head of the stairs \icror
    and Elizabeth prepare to descend. He turns in a circle for her to admire
    his renewed self.

                                        VICTOR
                         Do you approve?
                                ( then deeply sincere)
                         What you've done for me is a miracle.

                                        ELIZ.\BETH
                         But the miracle isn't mine.

                                          VICTOR
                         I'll never leave you again .



•   They kiss.

     IN"T - BALLROOM · CO1'1TINUING ACTION

    Victor and Elizabeth descend the stairs to applause and adoration from
    FA.\ifIL Y k"ffi FRIENDS.

    Alfonse beams, and Willie salutes. Victor works the room •- his dashing.
    charming, arrogant self.

     lN'T - LIBRARY · PARTY CO!'l'TINL'ES IN BACKGROC:"iD

     Henry pulls Victor into the library. A near empty bottle in hand. Henry is
     staggering drunk. He pours two drinks, sloshing liquor on the table.

                                       VICTOR
                         Whoa! Everything in moderation, Clerval.

                                         HENRY
                         Nothing in moderation. Frankenstein. She'll



•
                         make a lovely bride .




                                                                 (CONTI~l:EDi
COSTI:SCED:
                              \lCTOR
             l think ! better ask her firs,.

                              HE:--iRY
             You're a lucky man. V1ctor -- more than you
             know.

Victor embraces his staggering friend with affection.
                              VICTOR
              How can I ever repay you? I owe you my life.

                              HENRY
              You can repay me entirely ... by speaking to me
              on one subject.
Henry pulls Victor dose to his own his drunken face. His eyes bore imo
Victor's.
                               HENRY
              That day in Ingiostadt .. .I found you. In your
              laboratory ... What did I see? .. What did I see?
              Abomination?!
 Victor looks into Henry's eyes and grasps both his shoulders.

                               VICTOR
              That's over -- and you're drunk. Let me get
              you a carriage home.

  Elizabeth appears at the door.
                               ELIZABETH
              There you are, Henry. Victor's had enough of
              you. You promised me a dance.

  She takes Henry's arm and pulls him om onto the ballroom floor.

  TIGHT ON VICTOR
  A nagging fear in his eyes -- it's not over.
I:,: . F.~R.\IHOCSE · CHRIST\L-\S EVE '-°IGHT
Snow is falling outside in great flakes. A Yule rree stands . .-\ CHRJST\1.-\S
:,\ELODY is piayed on the oid man's VIOLI:--L In her bail room gown
from Paris. Agatha dances with her daughter.

                                BERTHA
              Is that reaily the gown you wore to the palace.·
              :.1ama?

                              AGATHA
              Paris was a long, long time ago darling. We
              musn't think about it.

Felix throws down a draft of ale and kisses his beautiful wife. Happiness
and new found prosperity are everywhere.

Bertha draws and paints on a thin slice of log -- a child's depiction of the
family with the words "Happy Christmas. We Love You."

                             BERTHA
             For the Good Spirit!

She places a plate of food and her painting on the porch in the snow. two
candles flickering. His gift.

The little girl stops to draw an angel on the frosty window with her
forefinger. As she walks away, the face of the Creature appears examining
the figure in frost.

EXT - FAR.\1:HOl:SE - ~1GHT

Passing the front of the house the Creature notices the candles. Quietly, he
discovers his gift and the plate of food.

INT - PIGSTY - NIGHT

The Crearure eats his Christmas dinner by candlelight. The snow falls
heavier. drifting over the roof of the house.

EXT - FAR.\1H0lJSE - LATER THAT ~IGHT

The house is dark. Working quietly but with great purpose. the Cre:uure
begins piling snow before the farmhouse. Snowflakes cover his tracks. A
CHORCS sings softly. hauntingly, beginning in a whisper.

                                                              DISSOLVE TO:
                                                       ( CO/'liTI;'.',;CED)
    co:--;TI:-,iCED:
    1'--::- . FA.R.\!HOCSE · CHRIST\1.AS \IOR),I:'.'G
    Bertha is first up. She runs to che door and opens it upon the sunny rnow
    covered world outside. On the step. is the empty dish. She beholds an
    amazing sight.

                                 BERTHA
                 \lama. Papa'. Grandfather! Come see! Corne
                 see!

    In their night
               - dress. the familv., stands in the snowv" doorwav.- Grandfather
    \Iartin doesn't understand what they're looking at.

                                  ~1ARTIN
                 ls the Good Spirit of the Forest paying a
                 Christmas visit. child?

    First Agatha. and then Felix make the sign of the cross.

    EXT - FARIViYARD - MORNING

    Out in the yard is an eight foot SNOW ANGEL in the posture of perfect .


•   beatific love. It mimics the child's drawing on the frosty window. with a
    face unformed. Snow has covered all trace of its maker's footprints. A
    CHORUS sings triumphantly. a choir of Angels.

                                                                DISSOLVE TO:

    EXT - STEPS OF THE FAR.\1HOUSE - DAY

    The first days of spring speak in fruit blossoms and daffodils. The
    Creature reads to old Martin from the Bibie.

                                CREATt:RE
                "And God created man in his own image,
                male and female he created them. And God
                saw every thing that he had made and
                behold, it was very good,

                                MARTI~
                Astounding progress! You read like a noble
                scholar!



•   The Creature puts the Bible aside.




                                                         ( CONTI"'.'.'CED l
    COSTI::--.iCED:
                                      -' T'·Rr
                                   CR !:.~-\. \..- ,c,
                   ['ve read every page.

                                   '.vtARTI::'-<
                                              .
                   Have .vou now! !'ii bet vou'd !ike some other
                   books. Come with me.

    \1artin goes into the house. The Creature doesn't move.

                                   YIARTIN
                                      .
                    Come! You be mv. eves.

    The Creature slowly approaches the door. He finally musters rhe courage
    and enters.

    INT - F1\R..'viHOl:SE - DAY

    The Creature has a pile of books. He holds Milton's Paradise ! ost
    The Snffetings of Young Wertlmr and Ruins of Empires are also now
    his.



•   Martin holds a glass and the Creature pours wine for them both. The
    Creature gulps his down. He pours another and gulps it down. He looks
    around the house in awe. Something wells up in him.

                                  CREATURE
                  There are things I ml.!st tell you.

                                   MARTIN
                  What is it friend?

    The Creature walks around as he speaks. becoming gradually more
    agitated as he continues.

                                 CREATC'RE
                  I have met a family ... I want to stay with them.

                                  MARTIN
                  You have relatives near here?

                                  CREATliRE
                  ~o. not relatives but ... but I have worked for


•                 them .




                                                            ·coN-I"'l
                                                            l         '-D\;
                                                                l -~~I:.
co~TI:--,iCED:                                                       71.
                            \-1.~RTI\
             Then surety they'll welcome you.

L'iTERCL7": EXT · FAR>'lHOCSE
Feli;T.: and Agatha approach the fannhouse from across the field. driving
the pi gs home. Bertha races ahead toward the house.

RESm,.,tE: INT · FAR.J.\i1HOCSE
The Creature bursts with emotion, falling at Martin's feet.

                              CREATl'RE
              Martin! It is this family ... Felix and Agatha and
              little Bertha ... and you! It was I who chopped
              your wood and dug your garden.,. I:

                              MARTIN
              Why have you never told me who you are?
              Come near. Closer.
 Martin reaches out and reads the face of the Creature with his hand.
 moving over the scars and deformity.
                               MARTIN
                          ( profound empathy)
              You are an outcast my friend. just as I am.

 The Creature is shocked by this comparison.
                               :'v1ARTIN
              Oh yes ·· I was tried and imprisoned.
              Condemned to death. But not for any crime. I
              was judged so for my wealth .... and my
              religion -- We are all fugitives. my friend.

  The Creature cries in despair on his knees before the old man.

                               CREATURE
               Save and protect me! I will be forever grateful!
               Do not tum me away!

  Bertha races in the door.
                             BERTH ..\
             Grandfather'
.\lartin turns to Bertha's voice. The Creature looks to Bertha•· p\ead:ng
with his eyes that this moment not be taken away from him ·· tha: his

  .
hooes not be dashed .
                              \fARTI.:'I
             Bertha! It's the Good Spirit of the Forest ...

A SCREAM from Agatha blasts the cottage. Felix rushes inro the room
with an axe handle. He begins dubbing the Creature in a rage of fear.

Refusing to fight. the wretch crumples to his knees under the sharp blows.

                              MARTIN
              Stop! He means no harm!

Martin stands to protect the Crearure. He falls to the floor. Felix continues
dubbing the Creature as he staggers to the doorway.

 Bertha stands frozen in his path. The Creature looks directly into the girl's
 agonized crying eyes.

 She reaches out to help him. Agatha yanks her back by the arm.

 The Creature escapes.

 STI - WOODS BY THE RIVER - DAY
 The Creature runs wildly through the forest. blood and tears streaming
 down his tortured face.

 EXT - FAR.\1Y ARD - Sl::'<'°DOWN
 The Creature warily returns to the farmhouse. ~othing stirs. The pi gs are
 gone. The front door of the house stands open.

  INT · FAR.\1HOCSE · Sl::NDOWN
  Empty of all life. The family has removed their belongings in haste.

  The Creature's books have been left behind as has \fartin's vioii n and
  bow. The Creacure picks it up gently. He carefully puts the books in 'us
  satcheL
    C:OSTI~CED:

    fn little Berthas corner of rne house. a smail drawing on :he wai; c:e;i::=rs
    che ·• Good Spint of the Forest." The Creature pushes out the chmk Ci
    mortar -- the window to "his'' famiiy.




    EXT - FARMHOuSE - ~IGHT

    fl'R~IT1:RE CRA.SHI~G. Smoke and then flames pour from rhe
    windows.

    The Creature emeries from the smoke with his satchel and the viol in. He
    plays TWO ?vfADDENING DISSONA.:-,1 notes over and over as the
    flames illuminate the sky.

    TIGHT ON THE CREATURE'S FACE:
                                   CREATURE
                                 ( vowing to God)
                  What am I? I curse the hands that formed me .. J


•
                  curse the day I first saw light. You shall share
                        .
                  my misery....... Fran kenstern.
                                              . I

    The flames are reflected in his tear filled eyes.
                                                              CL1 TO: BLACK

    EXT - FOREST - DAY
    With his violin and satchel on his back. the Creature moves at a trot
    through the forest. His mind is broken, a terrible light in his eyes.

    DOGS bark in the distance. Rabbits scurry. A doe crippled and down by a
    thicket. bleeds from two crossbow bolts. It waits to die. GE~'TLE
    LAUGHTER rings.

    EXT - MEADOW - DAY

    An elegant contingent of NOBLES enjoys a luxurious picnic in the
    country. A MUSICIA.i."1 plays the Ll1TE; A woman in layers of petticoats
    and powdered wig dips snuff from a jeweiled box. A SERVA""\i1 carves a
    ham amidst an elegant spread.

    The Creature breaks upon them at a dead rune
    COSTI:--;CED:


    \\(omen scream and panic e~uprs. The Creature grabs a VOLLTTL.Gl 5
    \VOJ\t1A~ and kisses her ciumsily. She scratches at him. kicking and
    screaming.

    One man reaches for a crossbow and aims. The Creature strikes his hand
    away and crushes his throat. His first victim •· his first kill.

    The party scatters into the woods. The Creature ravages food and guzzies
    wme with animal like abandon. He gorges meat. A monster.

    EXT - ALPS· DAY
    The Creature strides across the frozen glaciers and scrambles up a rocky
    cliff. His feet are bare. Only his ragged wool cloak protects him from the
    cold. The small leather satchel and violin are sh.mg over his shoulder.

    At last he looks down on Lake Geneva.

    He reaches into Victor's satchel and pulls out one of Elizabeth's leners.

    HE'S HOME.
    EXT - LAKE GENEVA· DAY

                                   . on the blue. waters of Lake Geneva. His
    Elizabeth and Victor sail lazilv
    head is on her lap. She strokes his forehead. She softlv SINGS a verse
    from Blake's " Songs of Innocence".                     ·

                                ELIZABETH
                Little lamb who made thee'.: Dost thou know
                who made thee? Gave thee life and bid thee
                feed? Little lamb who made thee'.:

    She kisses Victor on the forehead. He smiles and cuddles up to her.

                                VICTOR
                I feel I've awakened from a nightmare to a
                beautiful, beautiful dream.

                                ELIZABETH



•
                 It is no dream my darling .




                                                           ro":,-1-..;
                                                          ~--
                                                                          1 ·i::D
                                                               l..,.l ... \.....&.... )
~ \iOLL' oiavs fi,:e strange and :neiancho!" notes from ,'le banks T:-Se
n~tes repeac' fa;ter. again a~d again. Victor ,;ses up to :is,en. !t stops.

                               ELIZABETH
              It sounds like a child.

It starts again.
EXT - ROAD TO ESTATE - '.'/IGHT
A rainy night. The Creature's feet splash through puddles. THl.,DER
roils. He reaches an iron gate. which is open.

A carved stone pil!ar announces the house of Frankenstein. He fingers each
letter. and says the word.

                                 CREA.TURE
             Frankenstein ....

EXT - MANSION • cor-.'TINUING ACTION

The Creature enters the grounds. MUSIC can be heard within. Carriages
are parked outside.

Victor and Elizabeth leave the party and run through the rain ro a dark
gazebo.

The Creature looks on from behind a tree not six feet awav. Has he found
his maker?                                               ·

HIS POV · VICTOR AND ELIZ.-'\BETH
                            VICTOR
             Everyone loves Elizabeth.

He kisses her passionately.

                              VICTOR
             ~y more than sister.

She kisses him even more passionately. The Creature watches mesmerized.

                              ELIZABETH
             I am not .vour sister. nor .vour cousin.



                                                        (CONTI.'il"ED)
CO '.'iTI.'\CED
                               \"ICTOR
                              r teasing )
              'io. you were a gift from my mother. \,line to
              procect. iove and cherish ·· until death •· to be
              mine only .

..\s he speaks he's unfastens her boddice to reveal her breasts. He kisses
them with reverence and passion. Opening herself to him. she puils him
down to the bench.

The Creature is transfixed•· aroused•· then confused. He is disco,·e,ing
his own desires •· to the soft caressing sounds of the lovers in the mght.

EXT · BY THE CREEK · DAY

Willie plays with his set of toy metal soldiers. A moat separates the Swiss
from the Turks. He's lost in his imaginary world, digging with his wooden
sword to expand the moat.

                            W1LLIE
             Forvvard men! The infidels are bridging the
             moat!

He places a stick for the Turks to cross.

                             WILLIE
             Grapeshot! The Turks can't bear up under it.
             Victor! Lead the charge!

A great shadow falls over him. He rums and stares up at the Crearnre. He
covers his face and screams. The Creature plucks him up.

                              CREATL"RE
             I will not hurt you. You come be with me!
Willie kicks and bites and punches trying to get free.

                           WILLIE
            Let me go! If you eat me my brother will chop
            off your head with his saber!

                         CREATl:RE
            You must come with me.




                                                         ( CONTI~CED,
                                  ,,.,,   r 'E
                                   ~v 1 L.L.1
                 Let me down :-,ou ugly beast'. Vicror
                 Frankenstein will punish you:

    The Creature stops stunned.

                                  CREATl:RE
                 You are a Frankenstein!

    A hideous smile curls across his face like a serpent -- the monster.

                                  CREATURE
                                  ( a whisper )
                   .       .
                 .vfv enemv.

    Willie grabs his wooden sword. He jabs the Creature in the face.

                                  WILLIE
                 I'll kill you!

    The Creature CRIES OUT. He clutches the child by the throat. His
    powerful hand crushes Willie's windpipe, choking off his life. The body


•
    falls. The Creature looks down in pathological triumph .

                                  CREATURE
                 I too can create misery.

    RAIN FALLS and THU~TIER roils in the distance. Willie lays dead on his
    little field of battle surrounded by his soldiers. Sword in hand. his paper
    general's hat catches the first drops of rain.

                                                                 DISSOLVE TO

    EXT - ESTATE - SUNDOWN

    Victor carries the dead boy across the grounds in the drenching rain.
    Elizabeth and Alfonse run toward him.


                                VICTOR
                Father! Elizabeth!

                                 ALFONSE


•
                .vfy boy! .vfy precious boy!
    CO :---iTI:--;LED:
                                    ELIZ ..\BETH
                    \Vil lie!

    \·:ctor fails to his knees. struck with grief

                                 VICTOR
                   He's been murdered.

    Alfonse and Eiizabeth kneel down beside him kissing and caressing the
    dead child.

    The eery notes of rhe Creamre's vioiin echo. Victor stands. turning reward
    the mountains. Something is out there.

                                                                       DISSOL \E TO:


    INT - CREATURE'S CAVE OF ICE· LATER

    The Creature sits by the fire reading aloud from " Paradise Lost" by
    .\1ilton. His face is more hideous by the light of the fire.



•                                    CREATURE
                  . ... to be weak is miserable. doing or suffering:
                    but of this be sure ...

    CREATURE CONTINUES OVER:

    EXT - FA.VHLY CEMETERY· DAY

    Willie's small coffin is lowered into the ground as the family mourns.
    Henry and Victor are among the pallbearers on the ropes.

                                   CREATURE ( V. 0.)
                  To do only good will never be our task. but
                  ever to do ill our sole delight.

    Alfonse is in a wheel chair. his vitalitv broken and his hands shaking
    badly. With Elizabeth's assistance he drops Willie's wooden sword (;no the
    grave.

    EXT - L~KE GE:-.cVA - '.',fIGHT

     An electrical storm enlightens Ylont Blanc across the iake. Victor watches
     the tempest. his flagging spirirs lifted and energized by :he war in the sk,.
    COSTI.:--;CED:
                                    ,.,,.,-OR


•
                                    V  1 .._ !
                                            l


                            shoutim, re the neavens 1
                  There is your fu;erai Willie:::

    LIGHT;sfl:"-iG strikes a great tree on a cliff above Victor. It is urreriy
    destroyed just as in his recurrent dream.

    There. silouetted behind the devastation. is the Creature.

    Victor gazes at the apparation. aghast. Lightning flashes again. The
    Creature points to \1ont Blanc and beckons Victor to follow.

    Another flash of lightning and the Creature is gone.

    EXT - :'vIONT BLANC - DA \VN
    Beckoning.
    EXT - ESTATE - DAW~

    Victor lead his pack mule across the grounds toward the mountain. He
    carries his long rifle -- dressed for the high country. On the hum.

    Elizabeth rides up on Sultan.

                                ELIZABETH
                 I know your grief, Victor. '.'lo one could love a
                 child more than I loved Willie. I want to help
                 you.

                                 VICTOR
                 ~o one can help me. I love you Elizabeth --
                 please go back. Alfonse needs you.

                                  ELIZABETH
                 Look at me! There's something in you I prayed
                 I'd never see again.

                                VICTOR
                 Willie was assasinated! And the murderer walks
                 free!

    Victor grabs Sultan by the bit and pulls him out of the way. Eiizaberh
    watches him go -- back to Hell.
EXT - FOOTHILLS OF .\!Ot<T BLA.'<C · DAY

\" ictor ascends the mouncain beside a rushing Cieek. The green \ aUe:, .::
Chamounix stretches below. Above is the desoiacion of avalanche and
glacial movement.

EXT - THE SEA OF ICE - SCNDOW~
Victor reaches the top of a peak overiooking The Sea of Ice. He rests fer a
moment taking in the staggering view of the frozen chaos.

A mist rolls toward him across the glacier. He descends onto the ice.

                             VICTOR (V.O.)
             I wandered like an evil spirit, determined to
             extinguish that life I had so thoughtlessly
             bestowed-- or die.

E.XT - GLACIER SURFACE - CONTINUING ACTON
Victor navigates with difficulty through a frozen troubled sea. Forty fooc
high waves of ice tower over him and sink to deep frozen rifts. Anger and
hatred power him onward.

Suddenly he stops. peering through the mist and across the ice.

VICTOR'S POV - THE FIGURE OF THE CREATlJRE

Advancing toward Victor. vaulting the tips of frozen waves with
superhuman prowess.

Victor trembles with rage. With grim resolve. he unshou!ders his huming
rifle and primes it.

INTERClJT: THE CRE.~TL'R.E CLOSES

RESL'"M:E: VICTOR
He sets his brace of pistols before him ready to fire.

!NTERCL1: THE CREATCRE DRAWS EVEN CLOSER
    COSTl:',ilED:


    Finaily. he draws his saber. Sticking ic in the ice before r.im. he raises :i1s
    rifle -- sights ·· and waits.

    1:-.TERCL'T: THE CREATL'RE SOC:,.IDS
    .-\ whale from the icy mist •· in full view. of Victor. He is a specrre ··
    hideous.
                                   VICTOR
                                ( utter hatred)
                  Devil'.
    Victor FIRES. The Creature eludes his aim. ICE EXPLODES with
    impact ·- the Creature has vanished.
                                 CREATl:RE (O.C.)
                                 ( echoes all around )
                   By your hand. Frankenstein!

    Victor grabs his pistols. slowly surveying the ice .



•                                  VICTOR
                   Show yourse!f... do you only do battle with
                   children?

     The Creature appears on an ice wave behind him •·
                                  CREATl:RE
                   Your reception comes as no surprise Victor.
                   All men hate the wretched ...

     Victor whirls and SHOOTS. The Crearure disappears. He laughs •·
     mocking.

                                   VICTOR
                                 ( unnerved )
                   So the fiend speaks .. as weil as murders the
                   innocent!

     The Creature !ands directly behind Victor .




•
    COST I:---. CED:

                    [ am as .vou made me --- yer e\/en .vou~ my
                 __ creator~ detest me'.

    Victor siashes with his saber. The Creature eludes the blow easily.
    snapping his saber in two. He grabs Victor by the throat and slams him
    against the wall of ice.

    VICTOR AND THE CREATl'RE -- FACE TO FACE

    He forces Victor's hands on to the hideousness of his face -- an unearth!:
    ugliness. too horrid to behold.

                                CREATCRE
                 Why did you form a monster so hideous that
                 even you turn from me in disgust?

    Victor's hate explodes. He flails at the Creature in vain.

                                  VICTOR
                 That child was my flesh and blood!

                                CREATURE
                 Then kill me. Do your duty!

    The Creature hurls Victor sliding down a crevice.

    INT - ICE CA VE - CONTIN"CING ACTION

    Victor lands dazed in the Creature's lair. A fire burns. He is amazed ro see
    his satchel •• letters from Elizabeth scattered -- a stack of books. The Hoh
    Bible?: The violin.                                                        ·

    Even Victor's own journal -- the drawings of the being he had hoped to
    create. The Creature enters silently behind him.

                                 CREATl:RE
                 It was a hateful day I received life Frankenstein.
    '.'iow weaponless, Victor stands with his fists ready to fight to the death.

                                   VICTOR
                 :'v1usic. books -- you have human thoughts: How



•
                 could you murder a child?




                                                            (CONTI~CEDl
                           fiendish rage J
              \1iserv made me murder: I vowed vengeance
             again;t all mankind. Do you think the cry of
             the child was music to my ears'?!

Victor is a tangle of emotions as he fails under the Creature's spelL

                             VICTOR
             I gave you your life.
The Creature·s psychopathic laugh echoes through the cave.

                             CREATURE
             All my life is a dark hole . .\fo father watched
             my infant days-- no mother blessed me with
             smiles and caresses. What was I? Was I always
             this?!

The Creature seethes with anger. parading in hideous glory.

                              CREATURE
             Even Satan had companions to admire him! !
             am detested by all! I am alone ...
                         ( horrid self contempt)
             I am an aoornon!
Victor shrinks before the rage of the pitiful Creature. ECHOING through
the cave. He covers his ears and hides his head in shame.

                           VICTOR
                          ( pleading)
              What do you want of me?

The Creature softens. almost docile as he squats in front of his maker.
Carefully. methodically he traces the outline of a woman on the ice tloor--
as if afraid to utter a forbidden word.

                             CREATURE
             A companion. A female. Deformed like me ...
             so she will not hate me. You alone can create
             her ... I d7mand this as my right.




                                                        ( CONTI~l'ED)
CO'<TI_'.'s;LED:

              \,fake another like you ': ·· Kiil me and De
              done with iL I will never consent:

The Creature raises his fist bur doesn't strike. He impiores Victor on his
knees, his voice choked with desperation.

                              CREATCRE
             I am evil because l am miserable. For the
             sympathy of one living being I would make
             peace with all.

Pleading tears now fill the Creature's eyes. He turns away in humiliation.
Victor is devastated with empathy.

                           · VICTOR
             Do you truly believe you can find salvation in
             another like you?

                             CREATURE
             I swear by the sun -- and the blue sky of Heaven
             -- and the pain in my heart-- if you grant me
             this wish neither you nor any other person shall
             ever lay eyes on us again.

 Victor reaches out and touches the Creature's matted hair.

                                                    SLOW DIS SOL VE TO:

EXT - ICE CA VE - L.\TER
Victor mounts his mule. The Creature appears on an icy crag above.

                             CREATURE
             How long. Frankenstein?

                             VICTOR
             Soon. I don't know ... I need time.

                             CREATl'RE
             Betray me Frankenstein, and all Europe's
             annies will not save those vou love from these
             hands.                     •     ·
CO.'iT 1:---;LED:
ne opens his powe:-fui nand The:-e is ,V;liie's ro~ s0t;::1er He :osses .:
-::own to a startled Vic,oc



Like his falien commander. Lttle Willie. the mer.ai soldier's body :s
twisted and broken.
                                                               DISSOLVE TO

!'.'IT - ALFONSE'S SICKROO~i - DAY
..\lfonse sleeps. near death. Through the window. we see Victor passing
 below on his mule. exhausted and haggard from his ordeal.

 EXT - COCRTY,\RD - C01'<'TINl'ING ACTION
 He glances up at his father's window, but goes on instead. Jean Claude
 comes runmng.
                                JEAN CLAUDE
              We were concerned for you, Monsieur
              Frankenstein!

                                VICTOR
               How is Father?

                               JEAN CLAUDE
               Ill and grieving yet, I'm sorry to say.

                                VICTOR
               Where is Elizabeth'?

                                JEAN CLACDE
               At the village tending to the wife of Emile
               Corbet -- she was beside herself with worry for
               you. Better we tend to another's misfortune
               than wallow in our own, Monsieur.

  Victor pulls off his pack and enters his quarters. Jean Claude leads rhe
  mule away.
    !'-.1 - 'liICTOR'S QC.-\RTERS · D:l. Y

    '-loviruz to the iarge tarp that covers his scientific equipment. \ ;cror
    remov;s i: with o;e sweep. Th.e copper Revival vessel g1eams in the lighr.

    He stands back. his mind equally assaulted by memory and foreboding. His
    heart pounding. he is forced to leave the room.

    He returns. wrestling with his abhorred promise to the Crearure. He
    reaches behind a row of apothecary bottles -· fingers drawn as if by a
    magnet to something hidden behind all the rest •··

    •• a bottle of laudanum.

    EXT . LAKE - LATER
    Victor idly drifts in his boat by the light of the moon.

                                  VICTOR (V .0.)
                 I shuddered when I thought of my consent to
                 his request. His mate might refuse him. and



•
                 then return ten thousand times more malignant
                 than he! Had I the right to inflict this curse
                 upon my Elizabeth ? .\tfy family ?

    He buries his head in his hands.

    EXT · BACK ALLEY lN GENEY A - NIGHT

    RIBALD LAUGHTER from a prostitute's crib. A drunken SOLDIER
    appears on the doorstep fastening his belt. The PROSTITLTE gives him a
    boot in the rear.

                                  PROSTITL7'E
                 I pity our side! ~ow be gone with you.

    He staggers down the alley. nor seeing the Creature waiting in the shadows.

    1:-rr - PROSTITl,'TE'S COTTAGE - NIGHT
    The prostitute pulis off her dress. :-faked. she sponges herself off in front
    of the mirror.
PCV CRE.~TlRE · THE PROSTITCTE

\Varching her through a c:ack in rhe shurrers ·· admiring the beaut:, or me
female form unclothed. He feels the heat of lust.

INSIDE . cor,rn:--n:I~G ACTION
There's a K~OCK at the door.

                           PROSTITl'TE
             Go away. I'm done for the night.

The visitor K.'IOCKS again. Annoyed. she holds her dress up ro cover
herself and opens the door.

                              PROSTITCTE
             Are you deaf'?

She sees the Creature's face and tries to slam the·door. He grabs her
throat, choking off her scream.

EXT - FAMJL Y CEMETERY - '.'iIGHT

The Creature emerges from the woods by the family cemetery with rhe
corpse of the prostitute in his arms. He walks toward the_ mansion.

EXT - COlJRTY ARD • CONTINUING ACTION

The Creature walks up to Victor's door. Pushing it open with his foot. he
barges in.

EXT· COURTYARD - LATER

Victor returns from the lake. He stops short near his quarters. hearing the
Creature's VOICE inside.

He carefully approaches the door. Opening it a crack. he peeks in.

INT - VICTOR'S POV - NIGHT

The prostitute's clothes have been stripped off. The Creature speaks
tenderly. stroking the lines of her body as he speaks.

                             CREATl:RE
            Awake fairest. .. your lover is near. He would
            give his life to obtain one look of affection:
CO :-;Tl:--,. CED:                                                     Cl A-
                                                                         ', ' ,

He :races his 'ingers over he~ w;th cu~iosiry and aeiighr.

                              CREATl'RE
               We will go to the frozen north. w11ere no:ie but
               we can survive. Our bed will be of the softest
               furs. One day you will bear me young .

He kisses her dead iips passionately. Then he mounts her.

VICTOR BCRSTS IN.

The Creature looks up from the corpse with blazing eyes.

                               VICTOR
                 You're disgusting: The woman is dead.

 The Creature leaps off. Victor examines her bruised throat.

                              VICTOR
               You killed her didn't you?!

 Victor steps back •· repulsed.
                                  CREATURE
               Give her life. Frankenstein. She will be my
               bride.
 The Creature strokes his grotesque face with the dead woman's hand.

                                  CREATURE
               When can I have her? I like her...

                           VICTOR
               Tommorow night. :-.low go!

 Anything to get him out. The Creature towers over Victor with
  unconcealed menace.
                               CREATl'RE
                Do not betray me. Or I will be with you on
                ;:aw: wedding night.

  The Creature crawls out the window.
•   Victor preps the corpse. He injecrs her with a syringe. His hand shai<es ··
    the syringe drops to the tioor. Reviled. he :ioses her eyes and co•,ers .:er
    oody with a sheet.

    He paces the floor -- tortured. not knowing what to do. In the distance the
    Creature's VIOLIN plays five notes over and over. Victor holds his hands
    over his ears in anguish.

    EXT - FOREST - DAY

    Victor shovels dirt in the shallow grave of the Creature's bride. He
    hurriedly covers it with brush.

    Like a criminal he flees into the forest.

    INT - A HUMBLE COTTAGE BY Li\KE GENEVA - DAY

    Elizabeth tends to an unconscious dying young woman. An old
    GR.Ai.'-fDMOTHER sits by the bedside .


•                                 GRANDMOTHER
                 The doctor said only God can cure the fever.
                 Ms. Lavenza.

                                  ELIZABETH
                 Doctors -- they take all of the credit but none
                 of the blame.

    Elizabeth wipes the mother's fevered lips with a wet rag.

    EXT - COTTAGE - DAY

    Victor rides up and ties his mount beside Sultan. Children scatter as he
    enters the tiny yard.

    INT - COTT'AGE · DAY

    Elizabeth struggles with a pan of hot water. She's about to soil! it when
    two hands reach out to assist her.                           '

                                 ELIZABETH
                Victor'
    He outs the water aside. They embrace.

                                    ELIZ.-\BETH
                 ! was so afraid. I though, I'd never see you
                 agam.

                                    VICTOR


                                    ELIZABETH
                 Did you find the murderer?

    He puts her at arm's length and speaks most urgently.

                               VICTOR
                 We must leave here darling. We are in grave
                 danger every moment we delay.

                                    ELIZABETH
                 Have you killed someone?

                                   VICTOR


•
                 ~o. Listen to me. Marry me. Today. Let's leave
                 this place.

                                   ELIZABETH
                How can you ask me such a thing. Victor?!
                You frighten me! For three days I thought you
                might be dead!

                                   VICTOR
                Sav., ""ves. You will sav"' .,ves. Onlv. sav., it now:
                I need you desperately ... I always have.

                                   ELIZABETH
                I'll give you an answer tommorow.Victor. I
                need to save this woman. The fever wilt kill her•
                • she miscarried.

    She reaches for the pan of water and heads back: to the sick: room. Victor
    grabs the other side and follows her in.

    Victor kneeis down and puts his hand on the woman's fevered brow.




                                                                   ( COSTI:'-il.ED l
CO '.'-,"TI.'\l.ED:
                                 '·rrT"R
                                 V  '-..i.V

                ! can ease her suffering ...
                                \·rcTOR
                              to himself)
                 Better a miscarriage than a monster.

Elizabeth is taken aback. But she sees nobility in Victor as he ministers ··
the Victor she loves. He soaks and wraps hot towels around the sick
woman.

EXT · FOREST · .\1OR:-,Cl.'/G
Elizabeth trots Sultan on the way back to the Estate. She slows. hearing rhe
sound of a VIOLI:,,,i. Tethering Sultan. she enters the woods.

The Crearure sits on a stump playing. He doesn't hear Elizabeth approach.

Elizabeth stands behind him some ten feet away, listening to the strange
notes the Creature plays over and over. She moves closer and watches the
stranger's odd but expressive movements.

                                ELIZABETH
                                     .       .
               Is ,vour music alwavs so lone!v?
The Creature. is startled and breaks for the trees.

                               ELIZABETH
               I didn't mean to frighten you.
The Creature eyes Elizabeth from his hiding place.

                             CREATCRE
               Go away! I warn you!

He wants to run. but the woman's sweet voice and guilelessness have him
temporarily in a trance. Neither can see the other.

                                ELIZABETH
               You might consider improving your manners!
               You remind me of a troll in a fairy tale.

                                CREATl"RE
                               his first real lau2h
                                                 - l'
               I'm :iot neariy so handsome.
CONTI~CED:
She laughs wich him.

                                 ELIZABETH
              Is that why you hide?
                                 CREATCRE
              I've been alone a long time. But now someone
              comes. \,ly bride.

                                 ELIZABETH
              I'm to be married myself. I've only just decided.

                                 CREATURE
              I hope you'll find happiness. I am afraid ... l'm
              afraid I'll be betrayed.

                                 ELIZABETH
              You've no faith.

                                CREATURE
              Don't talk to me of faith. I know the world .

She sees his rags through the. bush.

                           ELIZABETH
              You should make yourself handsome for her.

The Creature wants to say something, almost revealing himself to her.

                                 CREATITRE
              I have nothing.

                                ELIZABETH
             ~ty fiance has closets full! I'll bring you a suit!

The Creature is e:i:cited.

                          CREATL'RE
             Why would you do this for me?


                             ELIZABETH
             Because you're a troll. Making a troll laugh
             brings a year of good luck!




                                                         ( CONTI~CED 1
She hops on Suiran and rides off rnrough the :'oresr.

The Creature watches her go. Hes never seen her face. but her kindr:ess
brings a smiie to his own.

EXT - CREEK SIDE - DAY
The Creamre bathes in the creek. Beside the bank a suit and shirt hangs
from a tree. The clothes are ones we have seen on Victor.

                                                               DISSOLVE TO

EXT - CREEK - LATER

V•/e see the Creature's reflection in the water admiring himself He's
dressed in a suit -- too short at the sleeves and cuffs. and a linen shirt and
boots. He smiles, doing a jig.

INT - ALFONSE'S SICK ROOM - DAY

Elizabeth's and Victor's hands are joined by Alfonse over his sick bed ...\
PRIEST stands by. Henry stands for Victor. Jean Claude will give away
the bride. There is joy. but no air of celebration.

Victor is struggling to mask his intense anxiety.

                             ALFONSE
             I confess that looking forward to this marriage
             has been the hope of my declining years .. .it was
             your mother's dying wish. Since you were
             children. you seemed entirely suited to one
             another. I wish you a long and delightful union
             and I shall look forward to your remrn from
             England.

Alfonse's blessing concluded, the priest steps up.

                             PRIEST
             Deariy beloved we are gathered here together
             to join Victor Frankenstein and Elizabeth
             Lavenza in holy matrimony


PRIEST C0~1I~lc.S OVER:



                                                        ( COt'-iTI~CED 1
    CO :--;TI :\CED:

    EXT · FOREST · D..\ Y


•   The Creature hurries throu11h the forest toward the esrare. anticipating n;s
    bride. Ahead of him. a pack of WILD DOGS digs furiousiy. The curs ~c;n
    at the sight of tne Creature.
                                     PRIEST ( V.0.)
                 ... do .vou Victor. take Eiizabeth to be .vour
                 lawful wedded wife ... to love and cherish till
                 death do you part?

    The Creature sees a human arm and leg exposed. Soiling his wedding
    clothes. he unearths the corpse of his bride to be.



    EXT - MANSION · DAY

    Jean Claude loads the bags. Henry helps Elizabeth into the carriage. She
    hugs him warmly.

                                  ELIZABETH


•                I shall write you a sonnet every day, Henry.

    He kisses her hand. She embraces him. There is a finality to this moment.

    Victor lingers, surveying the estate for the last time. His eyes fix on
    magesrlc Mont Blanc in the distance -- the icy domain of the Creature. He
    reaches for a bottle of laudanum in his coat and puts it to his lips.

    Henry grasps his arm and stops him.

                                  HENRY
                 I know what you fear Victor... but I refused to
                 believe it until now. Now go with your bride
                 ... I'll be here dose by Alfonse.
                                VICTOR
                 When I'm sure Elizabeth is safe. I'll be back. I
                 must destroy the abomination.

                                 HENRY


•                We'll destroy it together .




                                                           ( CONTI.'il"ED;
                                                                      \ 0 \,

                                VICTOR
              Cnti! I return .. Steel yourself. friend. His soul
              is as hellish as his face.

The ::wo men stand in silence. Victor embraces his trusted friend and heads
for the carriage as Eiizabeth appears.

EXT - ESTATE· DAY
The Creature walks through the middle of Elizabeth's flower garden.
trampling blossoms and smashing boughs. The dead prostitute hangs limp
in his arms. The Creature stops at the sound of horses.




CREATlTRE'S POV -- THE CARRIAGE

He sees Jean Claude speed the newlywed's carriage away from the
mansion. Victor and Elizabeth are visible inside. Henry escorts the couple
to the gates on horseba.::k.

                             CREATURE
             Dare you try to escape ?! Most evil of an evil
             race!

They don't see the Creature -- nor the bitter anger of betrayal on his face.
INT - ALFONSE'S ROOM - DAY             .

FOOTSTEPS approach Alfonse's room. Alfonse raises himself up with
difficulty.

                             ALFONSE
             Henry? Is that you? Are they safely away?

The Creature appears in the door. Their eyes meet.

                              ALFONSE
            Holy mother of God!

                             CREATL"RE
            \oty hopes will not die and you live!
    Aifonse seizes up in a stroke. The Creature yanks rhe old man our of the




    Henrv                    -                                .
        ... returns from the gates. The front door is wide ooen. Suspicious.
                                                                    .        he
    searches the windows for any movement.

    Glass shatters above. Alfonse's body CR.ASHES through the upstairs
    window. He lands in a bloody crumpled heap at Henry's feec.

    Henry draws his saber and charges into the house.

    !::-IT - MANSION - DAY
    Henry rounds a corner with a mighty slash of his saber. '."iothing.

    His heart is hammering. He kicks open the double doors to the parlour and
    enters with his saber at ready. ~o one.

    He shuts the doors behind him. revealing the Creature in the hall .



•   I:N'T - PARLOUR - CONTINCING ACTION

    Henry searches the huge room. Without warning ---

     -- r;vO HA,.",{DS crash through the parlour doors and clutch his throat.
                                                                  CtT TO: BLACK

     EXT - ROAD - DAY

     Riding bareback with his hair tlvin2 in the wind, the Creature pursues on
     Henry's mount.                  · -                            ·

     EXT - FERRY AT EVIAN - SC~DOW~

     RAIN comes down like pitchforks. Soaked to the skin. Jean Claude comes
     to the carriage window.

                                    JEl..-'J CLACDE
                  You've missed the last ferrv. Monsieur
                  Frankenstein. I'll secure th; most decent
                  lodging avaiiable up ahead at Evian
                                                                      \ 0   3,
                           \fCTOR
             Damn It aiL man:
He has a flash of pain in his head. Elizabeth and Jean Claude excnange
worried glances.
1:-.T - COACH · cor,rnNCING ACTION
                              ELIZABETH
             It doesn't matter where we spend our wedding
             night. Victor. Have I !ost the pew er to make you
             happy?
He collapses back into the carriage. eyes dosed. Elizabeth kisses his
cheek: she herself exhausted.

EXT - RESORT AT EVIA~. '.'<'IGHT
Rain is falling. A wooden chalet is nestled in the trees along the shores of
the lake. Lights are here and there. Victor stations Jean Claude at the front
door.
                             VICTOR
             Don't sleep a wink. Not a wink, do you
             understand?
                             JE.1\N CLl CD E
             Monsieur Frankenstein ... Who am I to look
             for? What is it I'm to guard against?

                            VICTOR
             Catastrophe. man. Your pistol is dry'7

                           JEAN CLAUDE
             Yes Monsieur. and should it fail I've another.

 Nervous, Jean Claude takes up his pest. Victor moves toward the back of
 the cabin and the lake.

 !'.'IT · CHALET BEDROOM . NIGHT
 Victor sics on the bed. Elizabeth enters in her wedding night gown
 carrying a candle. All his fears lapse the moment he sets eyes on her.
                                VICTOR
                 You are angeiic.

                                  ELIZABETH
                 I've waited for this night since we were much
                 younger than you know .... I was positively
                 wicked in my thoughts:

    Victor caresses her gently.

                                VICTOR
                 ! promise you a new life when we're away
                 from here.

    She breaks into tears.

                                   ELIZABETH
                 There's been so much grief and happiness
                 mixed together... all that is behind us now--
                 isn't it ,Victor?

    Silence. She searches his eyes for confirmation. He looks away. She begins


•
    to unbutton his shirt .

                                  ELIZABETH
                 Darling if we love one another and remain
                 true ... what can harm our happiness?

    Victor looks in her eyes, speaking that which he so wants to believe.

                                    VICTOR
                 '.'/othing. You are the passion of my soul.

    They kiss deeply.

    EXT - CHALET - POV CREAITRE - :'.',1GITT
    Lightning illuminates Victor and Elizabeth as they embrace in the window.
    Elizabeth moves to the bed. Victor peers into the darkness and locks the
    shutters.

    The Creature rises in silhouette m the foreground.
\ ictor steps our omo the porch. He secures rhe other windows. From '.he
woods in front of the cabin a PISTOL REPORTS 0.C.

                             JEAN' CLACDE
             >'ionsieur Frankenstein! Help me!

EXT . CHALET FRON""!" E;'ITR.1.\~CE · C01'-iT1;'.1..-1;'-iG .-\CTIOS

Victor rushes out. pistols in hand. Jean Claude's SECOND PISTOL
REPORTS from the trees.

EXT - TREES - CONTINUING ACTION

Victor finds him at last. Impaled on a broken branch. Dead.

                           VICTOR
             Show yourself bastard!

He frantically searches the trees.

I:N"T - CHALET BEDROOM · N'IGHT
RAIN comes down in sheets. THU~'DER rolls. The back door is kicked
open by the Creature.

Elizabeth calls out from her bedroom.

                              ELIZABETH (V.O.)
             Victor? What's happening?

The Creature storms into her room bent upon murder.

                              ELIZABETH
             Victor?

The Creature and Elizabeth freeze.   Confronting his eyes and death. shes
strangely unafraid.

                              ELIZABETH
             I know you. I gave you those clothes. Don't you
             know who I am?

He realizes she is indeed the one person who has shown kindness coward
him. She speaks soothingly.


                                                      ( CONTI;'-11..:ED)
    CO :-,.TI _'.,;LED:
                                                                        \ OLP.
                                   ELIZ ..\ BETH
                    Let me help you.

    His will for revenge falters for a moment. She takes his :.and. He caims.

    VOICES 0. C. Victor pounds on che door. She holds the Creacure s
    tighter.   He remains fast.

                                   VICTOR ( O.C.)
                    Elizabeth! Cnlock the door:

    Elizabeth sees the Creamre's mouth twist into a hideous snarL For born ··
    the moment of decision.

    Releasing the Creamre's hand. she scrambles across the bed for rne door
    But the Creamre grabs her feet and pulls her back to him.

    E.XT - CHALET - ~1GHT

    A DREADFUL SCREAM. Aroused VILLAGERS rush up. some with
    torches. Victor rams the door again and again.




•
    INT - CHALET - CONTINL'ING ACTION
    The door bursts open in splinters. Vicwr runs to his bride -- now a broken
    dolt blood trickling from her mouth. A moan rises up slowly from deep
    within his soul. Victor pulls off his coat and spreads it over her.

    EXT -      LAKE - CONTINUING ACTION

    Villagers gather at the bank shouting and pointing.

    Out in the water, the Creature swims away with powerful strokes.

    Victor shoves through the frenzied crowd. He sees his target and takes his
    aim.

     The Creature submerges. Victor waits •- an eternity.

                                  VICTOR
                   Surface. devil: Surface!

    The C;eacure finally breaks the water. Vicror FlRES ..

    Water e;,cpiodes inches from :he Creature's £'ace. He sinks from v:ew
                                    VICTOR


•
                  '..lonsrerrrrr:

    He tries to dive in. but vii!a2ers restrain him.

    EXT - GATES OF :v1A:--1SION · DAv-.·:-s;
    Victor comes home. Elizabeth's shrouded body in the back of the ca~age .

    .-1.t the gates of the Frankenstein mansion. Henry hangs by the neck from 3.
    tree. His body is twisted and broken by the hands of the Creature.

    Victor cuts his loyal friend down and lays him to resr.

    l'.'.T . VICTOR'S QCARTERS · SIGHT

    The lamps turn in slow rhythm •· rainbows pulsate. A human body is
    floating in the Revival Tank.

                                 VICTOR ( V.0.)
                 My hideous creation had taken from me
                 everything thing in life I truly loved .


•   Little by little we recognize through the porthole a naked Elizabeth
    floating in the broth•· her dead eyes open•· the colors illuminating her
    lovely skin.

                        .         VICTOR ( V.O.)
                 Elizabeth was life itself. and he took it from
                 her. I resolved to dedicate myself once again to
                 my most hideous task.

    Victor opens the lid. Grimacing he dumps the squirming black eels on
    Elizabeth's exposed body.

    l?'i'T · REVIVAL VESSEL · CON'TINlTNG ACTION

    The hideous reptiles STING Elizabeth's body again and again. In fits ana
    startS she is animated by life. A HEART is bearing.

    She looks out the porthole with consciousness.

    Victor rapidly unhinges the tank !id and pulls her dripping body cut


•
    f'<T . '\/ICTOR'S Ql ..\RTERS · .'\IGHT

    She G ...\.SPS and COCGHS \ ictor puts her on a rabie under a sheet
    Alive. she is delirious -- half lost in pair and dreams.

    She tries to rise up.

    Oniv a GCRGLE comes from her throat. But A VOICE speaks from
       •
    behind.

                                 CREATCRE
                  My bride.
    Victor turns. He's never seen the Crearure dressed in conventional
    clothing -- his own.
                                VICTOR
                 Get out murderer! You poison the air that she
                 breathes!

                               CREATl'RE
                 You were my creator --- but I am your master.
                 She is mine:!

    The Creature comes closer. Elizabeth rises up. semi-conscious.

                                VICTOR
                 Don't go near her!

     The Creature walks toward Elizabeth.

                                CREATCRE
                 Touch me. I will nor harm you ... come.

    Elizabeth seems to understand as if from a sleep walk. She stands up on
    trembling knees. the sheer draping from her bare shoulders.

                                VICTOR
                 Beast! A way from her!

    But Elizabeth responds to the Crearure's entreaties. Like a chiid raking her
    first steps, she moves unsteadily toward him.




•
                              CREATl:RE
                    This is the fulfillment of my destiny.
CO'-TI~CED:
; 5 their   hands touch. \ ictor douses rhe:n born from a beake~ of a.coho:

The Creature cant stop him in time. Victor hurls an oil 'amp on mem.

Elizabeth and the Crearure burst into flames.

The Creature siams back into the Revivai Vessel knocking it over. Life
serum flows out igniting in the inferno.

Eels writhe in the flames.

EXT - VICTOR'S QCARTERS · co1,iTI.'iCI.'iG ACTIO'.'<

Victor staggers out just as the building explodes in a pillar of flames. The
roof of the mansion catches fire. The flames spread quickly.

Victor Frankenstein -- the Modern Prometheus •· watches helplessly as his
world is comrnmmed by fire.

                                                              DISSOLVE TO:

EXT - LAKE GENEVA • DAWN
Victor drifts idly in his boar •· the shrouded remains of Elizabeth before
him.
                               VICTOR (V .0.)
               That happy youthful spirit who in our younger
               days wandered with me on the banks and talked
               with ecstasy of our own future prospects was no
               longer... here was all that remained of what
               little happiness there was for me on Earth.

He slips his precious Elizabeth into the waters. She sinks from view. He
drifts, weeping.

EXT - ESTATE· DAW:'-/

Victor stands before the smouldering ruins of the mansion. Desolation is
everywhere.

:\t the far end of rhe grounds another figure can be seen •~ :he Creature.
charred and scarred ·· even more hideous from the flames. He and
Victor's hatred for one another is paipable.



                                                        l CO:-.iTl);CED 1
    CO'iTI:S.:CED
                                        VICTOR
                           '
                  .\1 y rruser:·-l ' complete.
                                   ts     '    "vastard:"


•   :he Creature laughs in bitter mockery.

                                     CREATCRE
                 :siot yet Frankenstein ' I will make the light of
                    ..              .
                 dav vour miserv' We will wrestle in frozen
                 Hell!

    The Creature bounds away into the woods.

    Victor pursues in vain. finally running out of breath. He collapses on rne
    ground.

    EXT - RLlNS OF FRANKENSTEIN ESTATE - DAY

    The mansion is a black skeleton. Embers hiss •· doused in the falling rain.

    Victor straps his rifles onto a heavily laden mule. He mounts Sultan and
    rides through the gates ·· never looking back.




•
    EXT - SEA OF ICE· DAY

    Victor again traverses the Sea of Ice.

    EXT· ICE CAVE - DAY

    Victor approaches the Creature's cave of ice near the glacier with rifle i 11
    hand. He enters boldly.

    !~"T - CA VE - CO~"TINl."ING ACTION

    Victor finds the gnawed bones of a lamb. Books are tom to pieces. The
    violin is in splinters.

    But near the entrance are neatly packed provisions and gold coins.

    On the wall above them -- written in blood -- is the word:

                                "NORTH
                                                                                I\ L
    FLASH TO: THE G RE ..\,To ..\ K TRE~
                                    ,     ::i 8'L ••
                                       C r~       .i.-'T'CD
                                                     J . '--          n,.' .. • c:
                                                             8""t L,1Gr__r;-,·,,    J




    EXT • THE ARCTIC SEA· D..1,\\·:s,;

    ..\ panorama.
                                    VICTOR (V.0.)
                  I pursued his path .'."forth •· I know not how
                  many days and months. He would leave food
                  and messages on the trail ·- taunting me.
                  leading me on. '' Follow me '.'iorth: \-ly reign
                  is not yet over".

    THE VIEW PANS TO: THE CREATL'RE.
    W arching. Listening.

    In the distance is the " Alexander Nevsky," a wooden stick fast in a sea oi
    unyielding ice.

    1:'l'T - WALTON'S CABIN - DAY




•
    Victor has weakened to a whisper .

                                 VICTOR
                 Robert Walton -- learn from my miseries and
                 do not seek to increase your own. You have
                 hope and the world before you but l -- I have
                 lost everything. Grant me my last wish.

                                WALTON
                         ( overwhelmed by the tale)
                 I swear Frankenstein, if it be within my power.

                                 VICTOR
                 When I am dead -- should you come upon the
                 fiend ... Remember my Elizabeth. and little
                 Willie -- Alfonse and Henry -- brave and
                 trusted -- remember me when you thrust your
                 sword deep in his heart.

                                \VAL TON
                 Rest then. Should he appear. he will die .


•                                                             ( COt'iTI.:--;CED J
    COSTI'.\LED:
    \ icror manages a smile at \~/alton's words.



•   The cabin DOOR crashes open. lvanovsky and Grigori enter bo a: :·. w ::n
    the rest of the crew gathered outside ·· mutiny.

    \Valton reaches for his pistols and cocks the triggers.
                                                                    1




                                 IVA.SOVSKY
                 Captain. we demand one thing •· that you
                 promise to return South to Russia if we are
                 freed from the ice.

    Walton rises. his courage renewed by his pledge to Victor.

                                 WALTON
                           .                    .
                 What do vou mean? What do vou demand of
                 your Captain?

    Walton backs the men out of the cabin with his pistols.

    EXT - DECK - CO:N'Til'{lTNG ACTION

    Walton climbs to the quarterdeck•· pistols aimed.

                                  GRIGORI
                 Captain! We are surrounded by mountains of
                 ice! If we are lost .• you are the cause!

                                 WALTON
                 Be men! This ice is not made of such stuff as
                 your hearts!

     ICE cracks. The wooden ship groans and lurches.

                                 IVANOVSKY
                 You thirst for glory Captain •·· but our names
                 will never be read in the history books!

    Walton is moved by that simple truth. He looks down on the faces of the
    men whose liYes are in his charge. He lets the pistols fall to his side.

                                WALTON
                 I give you my solemn promise. If by Go<l we



•
                 survive the breaking ice -- I shall nru ask you
                    -
                 to go north wirh
                 own free wilL
                              .
                                  me unless .vou consent of .vour
Cnes of "Thank you and' Goa !Jiess you Captain \\'aiton' '.7ng oc:: :r:
Russian and English. \\'aiton continues,

                              WAL TO:-;
             Crew of the '.'ievsky'. I ask you a solemn
             .                                      .
             promise in return. This demon is no ohantom •·
             he lives and breathes! He is a murderer of the
             innocent! Whatever the peril. will you stand
                  .       .
             with vour caotain and destrov  . the beast?:'.'.:
The crew cries a blood thirsty assenc

!~1 - CABIN - VICTOR'S POV

There before Victor is the Creature. He weeps in bitter sorrow for his
maker. Victor reaches out to him. His hand falls limply to his side. He
breathes his last.

                                                         FADE TO: BLACK

!1'11 - CABIN - DAY
Walton returns. He stops short. The Creature's wet footprints lead ro an
open window port.

Victor is dead. Walton reverently doses his eyes.

E.XT - ARCTIC SEA - DAY
Victor's body rests on his sled upon the ice. ICE cracks like a small
explosion. grinding. Holes appear -- water is visible.

A crewman with a rope tied around his waist douses the body with whale
oil. The crew pulls him back aboard the Nevsky.

EXT - BOW OF r-icVSKY - DAY

Walton gives a signal. Ivanovsky heaves the torch over the side onto the
pyre. Flames grow as the crew watches.

                              CREW"MAN
            Captain! Captain!

The men run aft. Their courage becomes deathly fear at the sight of :he
Creature's hideousness in the light.                         -
                                                                                   .
                                                                             .I i 4-~
                                                                               \


    EXT - ICE · 0.-\ Y
    The Creature approaches \icror s body over the b;eaking 1ce.

    OS DECK:
                                \VAL TON
                  Arm the crew. Vladimir.
                                  IVA.;'iOVSKY
                  The demon. Captain?
                                WALTON
                  Yes, the demon. Hurry. man.

    ON THE ICE:
    Climbing across the breaking ice in desperation. the Creature nears
    Victor's burning body.

    Walton calls out through a brass megaphone.

                                  WALTON


•                 Halt!

    The Creature turns up to him from the shifting ice below.

                                  WALTON
                  Frankenstein is dead!

    The Creature dives into the frigid water. He swims toward the burning
    pyre.

    ON DECK - CREA Tl'RE I:'-/ VIEW

    A dozen armed men line the gunwales. A firing squad. Walton FIRES.
    hitting the Crearure in the chest.

    The Creature leaps onto a huge chunk of ice. He's hit again and again. His
    flesh is torn and bloody.

     ON THE ICE:
     The Creature reaches Victor. Climbing on the floating ;ce he falls in the
     dead man's arms. Another builet smashes into his jaw. The Creature's
     clothes catch fire. but he remains with his head en Frankenstein's :::!'lest.
O'-< DECK:
\t..:alton winces at the sight and hoids ui, his hand to halt rhe firing.

ON THE PYRE:

                           CREATCRE
              You were my father •· and my mother.

He weeps bitterly.

ON DECK:

The crew looks on in horror and pity. Some can bear the sight no longer.

ON THE PYRE:

Flames grow higher.

                              CREATURE
              Your misery was great •· but mine was greater
              still. Now I am alone.

Suddenly there's an ocean swell. ICE CRACKS with the sound and force
of an earthquake.

The sea opens in a cold and purple gulf between the Living and the Dead.
Victor and the Creature disappear into the icy fog.

                                                                 DISSOLVE TO:

EXT · OPEN SEA · DAY

The Nevsky sails south at full saiL The ice retreats in the distance. SEA
BIRDS call •- there is Iifo here.

EXT · DECK OF 1'<'EVSKY · DAY
lvanovslcy and Walton stand on the deck in the sun and the wind. Walton
sheds his fur ·· the air is warming.

                               IVANOVSKY
               We could go no further this year Captain.




                                                          ( CONTI::-.-t.:ED J
CO'.'iTI:--.CED:
                             \VAL TO'-i
             So it will always be.when God's wiii and mens
             dreams are disunited ~·

A warm wind biows through Walton's hair. His face is radiant in the scm

                             WALTON
             We'll try again next year.


SCRlA.BIN'S \'fl'SIC come to its dramatic close.

                                                         Fade Out
