                             SKULLS


                            Story by

                 Patrick Aison & Dan Trachtenberg


                          Screenplay by
                          Patrick Aison




                                        PRODUCTION WHITE: 05/25/21
                                      REVISED BLUE PAGES: 06/02/21
                                      REVISED PINK PAGES: 06/22/21
                                    REVISED YELLOW PAGES: 06/29/21
                                     REVISED GREEN PAGES: 07/19/21
                                REVISED GOLDENDROD PAGES: 07/29/21
                                      REVISED BUFF PAGES: 08/03/21




August 3, 2021
                                                            ii.




The following is a transcription of a draft of Prey (titled Skulls
at this point) dated August 3rd 2021. The actual script contained
revision markers, and page headers that denoted which revised
draft they came from. I was unable to preserve these, but I have
left the page breaks and in one case two iterations of the same
scene intact.
I hope you all enjoy!
Aaron Percival aka Corporal Hicks.
1   OMITTED 1 *                                                   1

2   TITLE: SOUTHERN GREAT PLAINS, SEPTEMBER 1719                  2

    A HAWK soars high above the plain. The rhythmic FLAP of its
    wings resounds.
    Suddenly an ARROW cuts through the air. It zips toward the
    bird -- then misses, blown off course by the wind. *
    The arrow arcs silently and falls back to the ground below
    where a young Comanche woman, NARU [“nah-doo”] (23), watches,
    holding her bow. She’s pissed. Naru’s name means “fighter,”
    which she earned by perpetually refusing to do as she’s told.
    Naru has a SCAR running diagonally across her right shoulder.
    She fires a second arrow. It misses. There’s only one more
    arrow left in her QUIVER. She nocks it. Shoots. Misses with
    that one too. Argh.
    To add to Naru's frustration her younger brother, TAABE [”tah-
    bay”] (21), stands beside her shaking his head in admonition.
    He has a scar on his shoulder that matches Naru's.
    Taabe fires his arrow, then turns to face her -- so confident
    in his marksmanship he doesn’t need to watch. Taabe’s name
    means “sun” like the star in the sky. Lets you know his
    standing in the group.
                        TAABE
              Patience, pâtsí.
    Taabe offers a wry grin as he uses the Comanche word for big
    sister.




                                              avpgalaxy.net
Above them -- SKUUP -- Taabe’s arrow pierces the hawk’s torso
sending out a plume of feathers. The bird drops the fish as
both fall back to earth. There’s always another predator.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          You would have hit it if you
          waited.
                    NARU
          Don’t give me that ‘big sister’
          crap. You only hit because you used
          my shots to gauge the wind.
Taabe smiles.
                    TAABE
          That’s true.
WASAPE [”wah-sah-pay”] (20s), big with a stubborn face, his
name means “bear”, comes running out to meet them. He looks
at Taabe.
                    WASAPE
          You left without telling me.
                    TAABE
          We left when we were ready.
                    NARU
          We don’t need your permission to
          hunt.
Wasape glares at her.
                    WASAPE
          You shouldn’t even be here. Hunting
          is men’s work.
A second man, HUUPI [”whoo-pee”] (20s), crooked teeth, runs
just behind Wasape, following him.
Taabe is proud of his sister.
                    TAABE
          She’s the one who spotted the hawk.
Taabe starts toward where the bird landed in the tall grass.
Naru steps past Wasape, ignoring him. She makes a sound by
sucking her teeth -- TiCh-TiCh. The grass parts at her feet
and SARII [”suh-dee”], Naru's dog, appears.




                                             avpgalaxy.net
He’s a small pup, about 30 pounds, unknown breed -- looks a
little like a black lab and terrier cross. He’s got short
dark hair with a lone white stripe down the center of his
forehead.
                    NARU
          Petsuh!
Sarii bounds off into the grass to retrieve the fish.
Naru walks to the stream.
She refills her water bladder.
Wasape makes his way to her.
                    WASAPE
          You think you’re a good hunter?
Naru looks up at him. He points to Taabe.
                    WASAPE (CONT'D)
          You’re only here because you’re his
          sister.
                    NARU
          And you’re only here because you’re
          the warchief’s son.
Ouch. Huupi looks away.
Naru seals up the water bladder. Steps around Wasape, walks
toward Sarii.
A group of YOUNG COMANCHE are nearby using the stream’s
reflective surface as a mirror as they wash and braid their
hair. They watch Taabe, in awe of his hunting acumen.
He picks up the downed HAWK. Taabe handles the bird with
reverence as he slides his arrow out of its body.
Taabe gestures to a KID nearby with a BOW and a QUIVER over
his shoulder.
                    TAABE
          Show me your tools.
Nervous, the kid hands over his quiver.
Taabe examines the ARROWS inside. The FLETCHING (the feathers
at the back end) is worn and uneven.
Taabe carefully removes a cluster of FEATHERS from the hawk.
He hands them to the kid.

                                            avpgalaxy.net
The kid looks thrilled. He smirks back at his friends who
look on jealously.
As he walks back toward them Taabe stops him. Hands him more
feathers.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          Fix theirs too.
The kid’s smug looks falls off his face. Taabe smiles at him.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          The practice will make you better.
As the kid walks back to his friends they smile and hand him
their old arrows.
Naru walks to meet Sarii. He’s got the TROUT that the hawk
was carrying in his jaw. Naru takes it from him. Wasape
laughs at her.




                                          avpgalaxy.net
                         WASAPE
              Your brother soars like a hawk.
                  (beat)
              And you smell like a fish.
    One man, PUHI [”poo-he”] (20s), laughs loud and long at
    Wasape’s dis. The others laugh too, but not Taabe.
    Ignoring them, Naru walks to Wasape with Sarii at her heels.
    She looks at the big man, stone-faced.
                        NARU
              You’d eat it if I let you.
    Like many of the men Naru interacts with, Wasape doesn’t know
    how to handle her ferocity or candor. The big man swallows
    hard and blushes, drawing another hard laugh from Puhi.
    Wasape shoves Puhi. He falls, but keeps laughing. Wasape
    looks at Huupi who glares at Puhi then turns away to avoid
    getting caught laughing too.
    Naru smiles and starts to walk away. Following after her,
    Sarii looks expectantly at the fish, but she ignores him too.

3   EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAY                                        3

    The home to a small band of Comanche. A few dozen TIPIS set
    up on the plain near the edge of a dense forest. A pack of
    HORSES graze in a field beside the camp.
    Naru and Sarii walk through the TIPIS.
    Two CHILDREN play a game: one rolls a wooden HOOP, the other
    attempts to throw LANCES through the hoop as it passes.
    Another DOG runs up to Sarii looking to play. Sarii ignores
    it, staying with Naru as she moves quickly through the camp.
    An ELDERLY WOMAN passes carrying a bundle of roots. She gives
    a sideways glance at Naru carrying the fish and makes a
    disapproving SOUND.
    Naru gives the old woman an insolent look then enters a TIPI.

4   INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAY                                        4

    The interior of the structure is laid out for function, not
    design. It’s ready to be packed up and moved with no notice.




                                                avpgalaxy.net
A fire smolders in the center hearth. A pile of softball-
sized stones are stacked in the burning embers, glowing red.
A tripod constructed with sticks is set up near the fire. A
“pot” made of buffalo stomach hangs from the three legs. The
vessel is filled with steaming liquid.
Naru peers into the pot. Uses a wooden spoon to sample the
stew. Quickly pops her head back out the door flap and spits
out the mouthful. Yuck.
Wiping her mouth, Naru watches Sarii walk in a circle at the
foot of one of the buffalo hide beds laid out by the inside
edge of the tipi. Satisfied, the dog curls up on it.
Naru kneels on the hide next to him and puts down the trout.
The dog stares longingly at the fish.
Naru takes off her pack. Sets her bow and quiver to the side.
She walks to her BUFFALO SKIN bed. Folds back the top half.
Hidden underneath is a leather SATCHEL.
She lifts out the bag, opens it and grabs a flint KNIFE from
inside. Naru cuts off the back third of the trout and tosses
it to the edge of the tipi.
Sarii waits for Naru. She nods and he leaps after the fish’s
tail and begins to devour it.
Naru reaches back into the satchel and pulls out a TOMAHAWK.
She handles it lovingly. Places it next to her bow. The two
handmade weapons have matching carvings.
A moment later Naru's mother, ARUKA [”ah-dah-kah”](40s) not a
smiler, enters the tipi. Like her children, Aruka has a
diagonal scar on her shoulder.
Aruka is carrying a bundle of root vegetables which she sets
by the stew pot.
The two women don’t speak or even greet each other. The tipi
is a small place to ignore someone; it is clear from their
interaction -- or lack thereof -- these two don’t get along.
Naru takes a section of rolled buffalo leather out of the
satchel, grabs a pointed stick and her flint knife and sits
by the fire.
She unrolls the thick leather hide, drapes it over her thigh,
presses the flint edge against the leather and uses the
pointed stick to break tiny flakes from the blade, sharpening
its edge.

                                          avpgalaxy.net
Continuing to ignore her daughter, Aruka uses forked sticks
to lift a red-hot stone from the fire and drop it into the
stew pot. She adds some of her root vegetables to the mix and
stirs.
Aruka samples the stew. She doesn’t spit it out, but she
clearly doesn’t like it any more than Naru did.
She looks down at the trout. Picks it up. Tosses it out of
the tipi.
                    ARUKA
          Keep your dog’s food outside.
Sarii gives Aruka a fearful look. Naru glares at her mother.
                    NARU
          You’re too good to eat fish?
                    ARUKA
          Of course I am. And so are you.
          It’s not our way.
                    NARU
          Is it our way to go hungry?
Aruka sets down her sticks and turns to Naru.
                    ARUKA
          The buffalo will return.
                    NARU
          You said that last year.
                    ARUKA
          And I was right. They will.
                    NARU
          You have an answer for everything!
Sarii looks at Naru, then Aruka. He picks up his piece of
fish and exits the tipi -- “you two have fun, I’ll be
outside.”
                    ARUKA
          Don’t be mad I know more than you,
          I’ve been around longer.
                     NARU
          A lot longer.
              (beat)
          The world changes.
Aruka smiles at Naru's sass.

                                            avpgalaxy.net
                    ARUKA
          That’s why you listen to the people
          that have seen it change before.
Naru gives her mother a defiant stare.
                    NARU
          And go hungry?
                    ARUKA
          This isn’t hunger. We still have
          stew. You’ve never known hunger.
Aruka stirs the stew.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          You think hunting will make you
          great?
                    NARU
          I think I’m good at it.
                    ARUKA
          There are bigger things than
          hunting.
She picks up Naru's bow. Runs her hands over the carvings.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          We all have a role. Those are your
          father’s tools.
Aruka tosses Naru a small leather MEDICINE POUCH.
                    ARUKA (CONT’D)
          These are ours.
Naru examines the pouch. It has a CRESCENT MOON painted on
the side. She sets it down. Looks at her mother with
defiance.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          Your brother is the hunter.
                    NARU
          My little brother.
                    ARUKA
          Taabe is not little anymore. And he
          follows your father. You follow me.
                    NARU
          I’m better at hunting than I am
          with medicine.

                                             avpgalaxy.net
                    ARUKA
          That’s not saying much.
On Naru's face we see the unique aggravation that only comes
from being needled by your mother. Aruka sees her daughter’s
frustration and softens.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          If you practiced with me, you would
          be a great healer. You’re my
          daughter.
                    NARU
          I’m my father’s daughter too.
Aruka sits next to Naru.
                    ARUKA
          I held your father as the life ran
          out of him.
She touches the scar on her daughter’s shoulder.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          You think I want to hold you back?
          I don’t. I just want to keep you
          from suffering.
Naru goes back to sharpening her knife.
                    NARU
          You want to keep me from
          everything.
Aruka sighs. She stands and puts the rest of the vegetables
in the pot. Tastes it again. Pulls a sour face. Nudges Naru
with her foot.
                    ARUKA
          OK, brave fish-killing-hunter, go
          hunt us up some breadroot. This
          stew tastes like crap.
Naru stares at her mom. Then gets up and reaches for her bow.
                    ARUKA (CONT'D)
          You don’t need a bow for breadroot.
Leaving her bow, Naru grabs the satchel and the tomahawk and
exits.
Aruka watches her daughter leave, a small look of regret on
the older woman’s face.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
5   EXT. FOREST’S EDGE - DAY                                      5

    Naru walks along the plain searching the foliage under the
    scrubby cottonwood trees near the edge of the forest. Sarii
    keeps pace at her side.
    She stops at a cluster of purple flowers. Using the tomahawk
    she deftly hacks the breadroot out of the ground. This is the
    wrong the tool for the job but it keeps it interesting.
    Naru places the root in her satchel and moves on.
    She sees another breadroot and digs it out as well. Watching
    her we see why Naru would rather be hunting. The gathering
    process is boring and tedious.
    Naru spots more purple flowers and moves closer to the edge
    of the forest. Sarii lies in the grass watching as Naru digs
    up the roots.
    Naru drops a root into her satchel. She sets the bag down and
    looks at the tomahawk in her hand.
    She turns quickly and throws it. The tomahawk flips end over
    end and -- THUNK -- sticks into a tree trunk.
    Naru walks to retrieve the tomahawk. We see the tree trunk is
    scarred with dozens of HATCHET MARKS, this is where Naru
    practices with her weapon.
    She walks back to where she stood originally.
    Facing away from the tree she pivots, throws sidearm -- the
    hatchet slams into the tree at the exact same point, creating
    a perfect X with the mark from the previous hit.
    Naru pulls the hatchet and returns to digging for breadroot.
    She stops suddenly. Studies the ground. Spots DEER TRACKS in
    the dirt.
    Naru looks at Sarii. He stands up. She gestures to him with
    her chin and Sarii bounds into the woods to explore. She
    follows, holding the tomahawk at the ready.

6   EXT. FOREST - DAY                                             6

    Sarii moves quickly through the trees, on the scent of
    something. Naru stays with him. Deep into the woods.
    It’s darker here. The forest is dense. Naru looks back.
    They’re far from home.


                                              avpgalaxy.net
Naru pauses for a beat, considers heading back toward the
safety of more familiar land. But she’s on to something and
Sarii is going after it quickly.




Naru moves even farther into the woods.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
Sarii stops abruptly. Naru looks around. She spots it before
we do -- a large eight-prong BUCK grazing in the shade. The
deer is unaware it’s being watched.
Naru stays hidden. Downwind. She reaches for her bow --
damnit, it’s not there. She grips the tomahawk. Signals Sarii
to sit. Naru starts in. Quietly. Moving to within the
tomahawk’s range.
She creeps toward the deer.
Slowly.
A dozen yards out.
Presses against a tree.
She can hear the deer breathing. It doesn’t know she’s there
at all, let alone within striking distance.
Naru peers around the tree. Cocks her arm back, readying the
tomahawk.
Suddenly a BARN OWL sails out of the tree, SCREECHING.
The buck instantly bolts. Naru throws. The tomahawk slips
past the huge deer -- slicing off a tuft of hair.
Sarii leaps after the buck, barking.
Naru runs to her weapon. Yanks it out of the tree. Gives
chase following Sarii.
The dog races after the deer, the two animals bounding
between the trees ahead of Naru.
The dog lunges to catch the buck’s hind leg.
He misses. Leaps again.
When he comes down -- CLINKK -- a metal SNAP.
Sarii freezes. Yelps in pain. The buck keeps going.
Naru arrives at her injured dog. She stops. Listens to the
sound the buck’s hooves receding on the forest floor.
Naru kneels by Sarii. His tail is pinched in the metal jaws
of a FUR TRAP. She examines the rusty steel device. Sarii
whimpers.
Naru spreads the jaws. The dog jumps free, turns and barks
angrily at the trap.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
Naru turns the small trap over in her hands. She yanks on it.
A long rusty chain is attached to one end. It wraps around a
tree. She tries to pull it free. The chain doesn’t give.
Naru pulls her knife and jams it into a chain link. She turns
the blade. The knife breaks. Damn!
Sarii barks at the trap again. Naru sets it down and checks
the dog’s injured tail. Sarii is calm, allows her to
investigate.
The wound is bleeding. In the modern world a veterinarian
might suture it shut. Sarii is lucky, the trap just barely
clipped his tail. Had it closed on a leg his injury could
have been way worse.
Sarii watches as Naru stands and begins to search the ground.
She finds the plant she’s looking for. Tears off some leaves.
Then Naru pulls moss off a tree. She presses the moss and
leaves together between her palms, rubbing quickly.
She pulls out the medicine pouch Aruka gave her. It hangs
from her necklace.
Naru spills its contents into her palm. Sorts through the
assorted FLOWERS and HERBS and removes a tiny pinch of what
she wants.
She takes a water BLADDER off her belt, mashes the pinch of
medicine together with the leaves, moss, and water and bends
down to Sarii’s tail.
The dog lets out a loud yelp as she applies the poultice.
Naru gives him a look.
                    NARU
          Shush. Are you a dog or a rabbit?
Sarii whimpers at her admonition, then goes silent.
Naru presses the poultice onto his tail and waits. After a
long beat she lets go. The bleeding has stopped.
Sarii licks her face. Naru scratches behind his ears. She
wipes her hand on a tree then walks back to the trap.
Searching the ground again she finds a large rock.
Naru lifts the stone and pounds on the chain. Over and over.
Nothing. Naru pounds harder. She swings down with all her
might. The rock breaks. Damn.
Naru lifts the chain, examines it.

                                          avpgalaxy.net
     A loud NOISE overhead -- a turbine whirring. Naru looks up.
     Something way up in the sky catches Naru’s attention but her
     view is obscured by the dense trees.
     Dropping the chain, she moves toward a clearing to get a
     better look.

6A   EXT. CLIFFS - DAY                                            6A

     Naru steps out of the bushes and peers up.
     A quick glint of sunlight as something big tears across the
     sky with a white CONTRAIL streaming out behind it.
     Naru's eyes narrow. What the hell was that?
     Sarii growls softly. Naru looks down at the dog.
     When she looks up, the ship is gone.
     She looks back at Sarii.
                         NARU
               We’re far from camp. We should head
               back now.
     Spooked, Naru walks quickly. Sarii follows.

7    EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF NARU'S CAMP - DAY                           7

     Moving quickly, Naru steps out of the woods.
     As she walks through the tall grass, two men from her band,
     ITSEE [”eat-say”](20s), squat and powerful, TABU [”tab-
     oo”](20s), nervous and jittery, run past her.
     Naru watches them. Then picks up her pace.
                         NARU
               What happened?
                         ITSEE
               A lion. It took Puhi.

8    EXT. NARU'S CAMP, CENTER CLEARING - DAY                       8

     When Naru arrives Taabe, Wasape, Huupi, Itsee, and Tabu stand
     with PAAKA [”paah-kah”](19), fast and lithe, facing an older
     man.


                                                  avpgalaxy.net
This is WARCHIEF KEHETU [”keh-heh-tuh”](60s), Kehetu has
lived a brutal life through decades of battle. He looks
tired, moves like a aging athlete whose body is giving out
after the strain of years of physical abuse.
Standing beside Kehetu is his wife, SUMU [”suh-muh”] (50s),
graceful and calm. He slips and she helps steady him.
The young men look nervously at their warchief. Kehetu
whispers to his wife. We don’t hear what he says but the
words seem sharp and they register on Sumu’s face with
dismay.
Deep in thought, Sumu leaves. The warchief watches his wife
walk to their tipi, then turns to the young men.
Naru observes from a distance as the warchief stands in front
of the men, sizing them up.
                    KEHETU
          Puhi was at the tree line when it
          came. The big cat took him and
          headed east into the forest. He
          won’t have gotten far.
The men seem to know what’s coming next and it doesn’t sit
well with them. Their faces show their apprehension. Naru
looks at Taabe. He’s the only one who remains unshaken.
                    WASAPE
          If the cat has Puhi, he’s probably
          dead already.
Kehetu looks at his son with a hint of disappointment.
                    KEHETU
          Maybe. But I’m not sending you
          after Puhi. I’m sending you after
          the cat.
                    PAAKA
          The woods are full of lions.
Naru looks at Paaka.
                    NARU
          But most know never to come near
          the camp.
The men turn to Naru, surprised she dared to speak.
Kehetu stares at her as well. But he’s impressed.



                                             avpgalaxy.net
                    KEHETU
          That’s right. And when one forgets
          we need to remind it.
Wasape looks from Naru to his father.
                    WASAPE
          You said you’re sending us? You’re
          not coming?




Kehetu deliberately addresses all of the men.




                                          avpgalaxy.net
                    KEHETU
          I’ve protected you all since you
          were children. It’s your turn now.
The importance of this statement registers on Naru's face. If
the men were apprehensive before now some are outright
fearful. Kehetu smiles reassuringly.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          The time for standing behind your
          elders when you are in danger is
          over.
Kehetu still speaks to all of them but is now looking at his
son Wasape directly.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          It’s time to earn your place in our
          band. Go hunt. Kill the beast that
          threatens us.
Wasape nods slowly. He turns to the others and lets out a
powerful WAR WHOOP.
As the other young men join in, HOWLING to overcome their
fear, Taabe stares silently at Kehetu.
The warchief meets Taabe’s gaze. They lock eyes for a
meaningful moment. Kehetu gives a faint nod, then walks to
join his wife in their tipi.
Wasape steps out and stands where his father stood. He looks
at the young men, then to the horses beside the camps.
                    WASAPE
          The cat is in the woods so we go on
          foot. Get your weapons, we’ll leave
          now.
The young men run toward their respective tipis.




                                          avpgalaxy.net
    Naru still watches from the side. Her brother is the only one
    who didn’t rush off. As he turns we see why, his bow and
    quiver are on his back -- where they always are.
    Naru holds for a beat, deep in thought. Then she heads back
    toward her tipi.

9   EXT. NARU'S CAMP, KEHETU’S TIPI - DAY                         9

    As Naru passes the warchief’s tipi she sees a young GIRL
    struggling to restring a BOW.
    Naru stops. Gestures for the girl to hand her the weapon.
    She inspects it. Rubs her fingers along the string. They come
    back dirty.
                        NARU
              You have to keep it clean. Always.
    The girl nods. Naru points to a frayed spot.
                        NARU (CONT’D)
              You have a fresh one?
    The girl nods again.
                        NARU (CONT’D)
              Bring it to me.
    The girl runs off.
    Naru continues to examine the bow. She spots a ROUGH EDGE on
    the notch where the string attaches. Pulls her flint knife,
    begins to carve it smooth.
    From inside Kehetu’s tent she hears an argument.
                        SUMU (O.S.)
              But why now!?
    Kehetu speaks softly. With love.
                        KEHETU (O.S.)
              I had no say in when the lion would
              come.
    Naru peeks through the open flap. Inside Kehetu is attempting
    to comfort his wife. They’re caught up in the moment and
    don’t notice Naru.
    The warchief lowers himself to sit on a skin rug. We see that
    his body is failing him, he winces with each small movement.

                                              avpgalaxy.net
                    SUMU
          He’s not ready! Why did you send
          him?
                     KEHETU
          I sent them all. Wasape might fail
          alone, but together they will kill
          that lion.
                    SUMU
          It’s not just the lion. The white
          men move in the eastern woods. They
          set their traps closer and closer.
A look of recognition registers on Naru's face when Sumu
mentions the traps, but she stays silent.
                    KEHETU
          All the more reason it is time to
          test our young. I can no longer be
          at the front of every battle. We
          need a new leader.
Sumu processes the significance of what her husband is
telling her. We watch it land on Naru as well.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          It does not matter that Wasape is
          our son. Leadership cannot be
          inherited. It must be earned.
Outside, the girl returns with the new BOW STRING and hands
it to Naru.
Using her legs for leverage, Naru deftly bends the wood --
loops the bowstring into place -- releases it. She hands the
restrung bow to the girl who smiles and runs off.
Naru begins to move on, then stops as she hears Kehetu
continue to explain to Sumu.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          There are those that protect, and
          those that need protection.
The warchief takes his wife’s hand. He grimaces in pain as he
lies back on the rug.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          I sent them now so I will still be
          here to help sort between the two.
Outside the tipi we see Naru's face. She knows which category
she wants to be in.

                                             avpgalaxy.net
10     EXT. FOREST - DAY                                            10

       The empty pine trees are dark and foreboding. The sounds of
       the forest fill the air.
       A man’s silhouette appears. It’s holding a weapon.
       The figure steps out of the shadows. It’s Taabe. He’s
       followed by Wasape and the others in the hunting party:
       Huupi, Itsee, Tabu, and Paaka.
       As they come into clearer view we see their faces are
       painted. Each has their own distinct pattern made with red,
       white and black clay.
       Taabe’s is the most striking in appearance, it is ominous and
       deadly looking -- a THICK WHITE BAND running ear to ear
       across his face with a THIN BLACK SLIT intersecting each eye.
       The group of Comanche walks in unison, quietly stalking.

A10A   OMITTED                                                    A10A

A10B   EXT. FOREST - DAY                                          A10B

       The hunting party continues through the forest on the other
       side of the stream, undaunted by the threatening feel of the
       woods.
       There’s a rustling noise behind them. Taabe stops and turns.
       The others hear it a moment later and turn as well.
       Paaka draws back an arrow, Taabe grabs his hand. Paaka turns
       to him, anger in his eyes. Taabe gestures for Paaka to look
       in the direction he was about to fire, he does and Naru steps
       out of the shadows.
       She’s carrying her bow and wearing her own unique face paint
       scheme -- hers is primarily black with a JAGGED RED OUTLINE.
                           NARU
                 You’re off the cat’s trail.
       Taabe cocks his head.
       Sarii comes out of the woods. He stops at Naru's feet and
       stares back. Naru makes the sound -- TiCh-TiCh -- Sarii
       headsback in.
       Taabe nods and starts after Sarii. Wasape stops him.



                                                 avpgalaxy.net
10     EXT. FOREST - DAY                                            10

       The empty pine trees are dark and foreboding. The sounds of
       the forest fill the air.
       A man’s silhouette appears. It’s holding a weapon.
       The figure steps out of the shadows. It’s Taabe. He’s
       followed by Wasape and the others in the hunting party:
       Huupi, Itsee, Tabu, and Paaka.
       As they come into clearer view we see their faces are
       painted. Each has their own distinct pattern made with red,
       white and black clay.
       Taabe’s is the most striking in appearance, it is ominous and
       deadly looking -- a THICK WHITE BAND running ear to ear
       across his face with a THIN BLACK SLIT intersecting each eye.
       The group of Comanche walks in unison, quietly stalking.

A10A   EXT. FOREST STREAM - DAY                                   A10A

       The warriors crash through the river maintaining their
       formation.

A10B   EXT. FOREST - DAY                                          A10B

       The hunting party continues through the forest on the other
       side of the stream, undaunted by the threatening feel of the
       woods.
       There’s a rustling noise behind them. Taabe stops and turns.
       The others hear it a moment later and turn as well.
       Paaka draws back an arrow, Taabe grabs his hand. Paaka turns
       to him, anger in his eyes. Taabe gestures for Paaka to look
       in the direction he was about to fire, he does and Naru steps
       out of the shadows.
       She’s carrying her bow and wearing her own unique face paint
       scheme -- hers is primarily black with a JAGGED RED OUTLINE.
                           PAAKA
                 You could get shot sneaking up like
                 that.
                           NARU
                 Who is sneaking up? I was loud
                 enough for an old man to hear.



                                                  avpgalaxy.net
Taabe smiles enjoying his sister’s chutzpah. Paaka gives her
a dirty look.
                    WASAPE
          Why did you come? We won’t be gone
          long enough to need a cook.
Paaka laughs. Naru looks like she’d love to shoot him. She
chokes back her anger and turns to Taabe.
                    NARU
          You’re off the cat’s trail.
Taabe cocks his head.
Sarii comes out of the woods. He stops at Naru's feet and
stares back. Naru makes the sound -- TiCh-TiCh -- Sarii heads
back in.
Taabe nods and starts after Sarii. Wasape stops him.
                    WASAPE
          Hunting is men’s work. We’ll need
          silence. Not woman’s chatter.
Paaka laughs. Taabe doesn’t.
                    TAABE
          She should stay. She tracks well.
          And if we find Puhi alive she knows
          medicine.




                                          avpgalaxy.net
      Wasape doesn’t like being challenged but he knows the others
      respect Taabe. He nods, moves on. The others continue on as
      well.
      Naru looks down at Sarii. Taabe walks to her. Speaks so only
      she can hear.
                          TAABE (CONT'D)
                You have to find that cat now.
                            NARU
                I will.
                           TAABE
                I know.
                    (beat)
                Because you have to.

10A   OMMITED                                                     10A

11    EXT. FOREST - DAY                                            11

      Taabe and Naru are on one side of the group, Wasape is on the
      other.
      They move with speed and grace. A deadly squad. Cruising over
      the terrain with stealth and precision, a cohesive unit of
      trained hunters.
      Naru is watching as Sarii stops. Sniffs the ground. Taabe
      catches sight of it too -- the dog found something. He’s
      smelling a pile of animal DROPPINGS.
                          WASAPE
                Oh good. Your dog found shit.
                          PAAKA
                We’re not looking for wolves.
      Taabe steps closer.




                                                 avpgalaxy.net
                          TAABE
                It’s not wolf. See the crushed
                bone? That’s lion scat. It’s fresh.
                And the cat that made it was big.
      Naru scratches Sarii behind the ears. She reaches into her
      satchel and pulls out a hunk of PEMMICAN (the Native American
      version of MREs; highly portable food that doesn’t spoil).
      Naru gives Sarii the food as a reward.
      Naru examines the plants nearby. She shows Taabe who touches
      them, then walks back to the others.
      He shows Wasape the blood on his fingertips, then returns to
      the blood trail. The others follow.

12    EXT. FOREST - DUSK                                           12

      The hunting party moves deeper into the woods. The vegetation
      is thicker here. It’s darker.
      Sarii runs back to Naru and pants, awaiting her attention.
      When she looks, Sarii darts ahead into the woods -- he found
      something else.
      Naru moves forward quickly. She pulls her tomahawk. The
      others draw their weapons too.
      Naru points. Taabe follows her line.
      He stops. Signals for the others to stop. Naru taps her ear,
      gesturing “listen”. The hunting party is still and quiet.
      A faint sound. WHEEZING. Taabe slowly turns his head, trying
      to locate the source.
      Taabe moves to the base of a huge Douglas fir -- Puhi is
      lying in the dirt below.
      His shirt’s torn off. His torso covered in claw marks. Four
      deep puncture wounds surround Puhi’s neck -- evidence of the
      lion’s canine teeth closing on his throat.
      Staring at the wounded man, Wasape looks as if he’s going to
      be sick. He steadies himself, holding on to a tree.
      Naru puts her ear by Puhi’s mouth. She listens for breath.
      Hears it. She nods to Taabe.

12A   EXT. FOREST - DUSK                                         12A

      The hunting party snaps into action as a team:

                                                avpgalaxy.net
Taabe positions Paaka and Itsee to stand guard.
He finds a PINE CONE.
Coats the cone in SAP.
He cuts a branch off the tree. Chops out a three-foot
section.
Splits the top twice, forming an X.
Shoves the cone into the X.
He strikes a rock with the back of his flint tomahawk -- a
spark ignites the cone -- Taabe rises holding a TORCH.
Naru scans the area for medicinal plants.
Wasape and Huupi begin to fashion a STRETCHER using branches
and a pelt.
Naru presses the herbal medicine into Puhi’s wounds.
After a beat, she stands and regards his condition. She’s not
satisfied.
She searches the ground near the base of a tree. Finds a
cluster of MUSHROOMS. She pulls a handful. Puts all but one
in a POUCH on her belt, then walks back to Puhi.
The others watch as Naru lifts the small medicine pouch from
around her neck. She carefully sorts out some bright orange
FLOWER PETALS.
Tabu regards the orange flowers with fear.
                    TABU
          He needs that?
                    NARU
          Yes.
She takes the water bladder from her belt. Using the water,
she mixes the crushed mushroom and the orange petals
together.
Naru opens Puhi’s mouth. As she reaches to place the medicine
on his tongue, Itsee grabs her wrist.
                    ITSEE
          So much could kill him.
Naru stares into Itsee’s eyes, firmly confident.


                                             avpgalaxy.net
                    NARU
          Yes it could. But without it he’ll
          die for certain.
Naru pulls her hand free and puts the flowers in Puhi’s
mouth, pours water in after, massages his throat, manually
forcing the injured man to swallow.
They watch. Puhi lies motionless.
He convulses suddenly -- it’s like he’s been hit with shock
paddles. He twitches wildly, bouncing on the dirt floor, the
muscles in his chest squirming inside his skin.
Puhi’s eyes pop open. He gasps deeply then wraps his arms
around himself as if bracing, naked, from a freezing wind.
                    TAABE
          He’s got to be brought home.
                    WASAPE
              (nervous)
          What about the cat?
Taabe hands Wasape his torch.
                    TAABE
          I’ll find it.
Wasape looks at Taabe, conflicted. He’s eager to leave the
danger behind but doesn’t want to appear afraid.
                    WASAPE
          Should I stay?
Taabe reads Wasape’s fear and gives him a way out.
                    TAABE
          He will need more medicine than
          Naru can give him here. We have to
          get him home fast, and we need your
          strength to do it.
The others watch, recognizing that the warchief’s son is
taking direction from Taabe. Wasape nods and begins to load
Puhi onto the stretcher.
                    NARU
              (to Taabe)
          I’ll stay with you.
Taabe sees the concern on Naru's face. He speaks quietly to
her as the others finish loading Puhi onto the stretcher.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
                          TAABE
                I can handle the lion.
                          NARU
                It’s not just the lion. Why is Puhi
                alive? Something scared the cat
                away from its den.
                          TAABE
                I’ve got this.
                    (smiles)
                Your little brother is grown now,
                pâtsí. Stay with Puhi, he needs
                your help too.
      Wasape approaches Naru and interrupts angrily.
                          WASAPE
                We have no time to waste talking.
                We need to get him home. Now.
      When Naru turns back to Taabe he’s gone, disappeared into the
      forest. Naru's face shows her deep concern for her brother.
      Paaka and Huupi grab the heavy stretcher and lift. On
      Wasape’s cue, the hunting party moves out carrying Puhi.
      Naru looks at Sarii, then moves to catch up with the others.

12A   OMMITED                                                     12A

13    EXT. FOREST - NIGHT                                          13

      Wasape and the others continue back toward camp, crashing
      through the woods, choosing speed over stealth.
      A few yards back Naru and Sarii move with them. Ever
      vigilant, she makes as little noise as possible.
      Puhi begins to MOAN. He convulses again. Paaka stops. Naru
      moves forward to check on him.
      He’s soaked and shivering so badly his teeth are chattering.
      Paaka reaches to re-cover Puhi with buffalo hide cloak that
      has drifted down to his legs. Naru stops him.




                                                avpgalaxy.net
                         NARU
               The cold is good. The medicine
               slows his blood. If he gets warm
               he’ll bleed out.
     Wasape stares at Puhi shivering, he looks miserable. Even
     Sarii watches seemingly with sympathy.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               Do you want him to be comfortable
               or alive?
     As the party moves on, Naru spots something on the ground.
     She lowers her torch to get a better look. Follows the trail
     a few steps off.

14   EXT. SMALL CLEARING - NIGHT                                  14

     Naru continues on, studying the ground.
     She stops. Spots a dead MOUSE. Bending closer she sees two
     FANG marks in its body.
     Curious, she looks past the mouse to the base of a thick
     tree. Something near the roots catches her eye.
     She moves closer. Examines it -- a peeled MUSCULAR SYSTEM of
     a DIAMONDBACK. The cuts are surgical, strange. As Naru
     explores it, the dead snake slithers.
     She sets it down. Lowers her torch. In the light she spots
     two large FOOTPRINTS.
     They’re huge, larger than any man’s. At the front end of each
     print there are four distinct claw marks -- these are
     PREDATOR TRACKS.
     Studying the tree’s trunk Naru sees fresh GOUGES in the bark;
     claw marks from something heavy climbing up.
     There’s a CRACK above her. A tree limb groaning under weight.
     Looking up, Naru stands frozen and stares, unable to make
     sense of the view. There’s something there, she just can’t
     see it.
     PREDATOR POV -- the alien stares back at Naru, he too is
     stock still, observing.
     Naru moves backward -- bumps into something -- she whirls --
     it’s Wasape. He smiles, enjoying having startled her.


                                                  avpgalaxy.net
                         WASAPE
               We don’t have time to wait for you.
               Keep up.
     He starts back to the others. Naru stops him.
                         NARU
               Look.

15   EXT. SMALL CLEARING - NIGHT                                  15

     Paaka, Huupi, Wasape, and Naru look at the Predator’s
     footprints.
                         PAAKA
               Could be bear tracks?
                         NARU
               Maybe. But that’s a big bear.
     Huupi and Paaka nod agreement. Naru looks around.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               And why was it only on hind legs?
     Wasape looks the others. There’s a quickness in his voice.
     Fear he’s trying to cover.
                         WASAPE
               We need to keep moving.
     Naru stares at him. Then starts back in the direction they’ve
     been traveling away from.
                         NARU
               I have to warn my brother.
                         WASAPE
               Warn him of what?
                         NARU
               Whatever left these tracks is what
               scared off the lion.
                         WASAPE
               You don’t know that. And unlike
               you, your brother can take care of
               himself. We need to get Puhi home.
     Naru continues back toward Taabe.




                                               avpgalaxy.net
                         NARU
               You’ll get him there. I have to
               help Taabe.
     Wasape gives a disdainful snort.
                         WASAPE
               He doesn’t need your help.
     Naru does not waste time slowing to respond. Wasape watches
     her getting father away. He’s pissed.
                          WASAPE (CONT'D)
               Shit!
                   (to Paaka)
               Go with her. Taabe won’t want her
               out alone.
     Paaka runs to catch up with Naru. Wasape kicks the Predator’s
     footprints, obliterating them.
     High in the tree above Wasape, still cloaked, the Predator
     stares down. He’s holding the diamondback’s SKULL. Attaches
     it to his loincloth.

16   EXT. FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT                                   16

     Naru and Sarii run through the trees. It’s dark now. They
     pass over the enormous downed tree and a few other landmarks
     we recognize -- they’re going back, away from safety.
     There’s a look of determination on Naru's face. She moves
     with stealth but she’s eager to get to her brother quickly.
     50 yards back Paaka struggles to keep up.

17   EXT. FOREST - NIGHT                                         17

     Still tearing through the foliage, Naru slows suddenly.
     Sariifollows her lead and moves at a deliberate pace by her
     feet.
     Taking advantage of their reduced speed, Paaka manages to
     catch up. In his haste Paaka steps on a branch, snapping it.
     Naru gives him an admonishing look, then keeps going.
     She steps around the huge Douglas fir and arrives back at the
     mountain lion den. Sarii sniffs the ground where they found
     Puhi. Staying silent, Naru listens to the forest.
     Sarii continues searching the ground for Taabe’s trail.


                                                 avpgalaxy.net
Naru and Paaka follow the dog as he moves deeper into the
woods, his nose hovering above the ground.
Naru hears a noise. Sarii runs back to her. She stops.
Listens. This time we hear it too. It’s faint but distinct.
Something moving in the leaves.
Paaka continues to stomp loudly through the foliage. Then
suddenly his torch goes out.
Naru looks back toward where Paake was. When she turns back
Taabe is there. Smiling.
                      TAABE
          Pâtsí.
A look of relief comes over Naru. Paaka is standing behind
Taabe, his torch on the ground by his feet.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          We don’t need torches. They’llscare
          the cat. We’re in its hunting
          grounds.
Naru puts hers out.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          Why did you come back?
                    NARU
          I found tracks. Maybe bear. Maybe
          something else. I wanted to warn
          you. It’s what scared that cat off.
          That’s the only reason Puhi was
          alive when we found him.
                    TAABE
          I’m not frightened of a bear.
Naru hesitates. She looks at Paaka then decides she has to
tell Taabe.
                    NARU
          I don’t think it was bear.
He looks at her -- really?
                    NARU (CONT'D (CONT’D)
          I don’t know what it was. I’ve
          never seen tracks like that.
Taabe considers this. He knows Naru is a great tracker.



                                            avpgalaxy.net
                          TAABE
                Whatever they were, the lion thinks
                it owns this range.
                          NARU
                That’s why it came so close to the
                camp.
                          TAABE
                Yes. It won’t think we’re hunting
                it here, it will think it’s hunting
                us. We’ll turn its strength into
                weakness.

18    OMITTED                                                      18

18A   EXT. DENSE BRUSH - NIGHT                                   18A

      Taabe, Naru, and Paake crawl through tall grass to a mound
      overlooking a game trail.
      Naru looks out past the brush up into a huge dead cottonwood
      TREE that stands above the trail.
                          NARU
                You said this is the lion’s hunting
                grounds?
      Taabe nods.
                          NARU (CONT'D)
                If it’s come through this pass
                before, it will again.
      Naru points up into the tree’s branches.
                          NARU (CONT'D)
                We climb up. Wait for it.
      Paaka looks at Naru with disdain.
                          PAAKA
                A hunter doesn’t wait. He hunts. We
                could be here all night.
      He looks to Taabe for back up, but Taabe’s expression is
      blank. He’s considering.
                          NARU
                We could stalk the forest without
                spotting it too.


                                                 avpgalaxy.net
                         PAAKA
               If you’re too afraid to hunt, go
               back to camp where you belong.
     Taabe stands. Looks back into the woods.
                         TAABE
               We’ll try it Naru’s way.
     Naru looks at Paaka -- “I told you”.
                         TAABE (CONT'D)
               We’ll bait it. Then I’ll lead the
               cat to you.
     Taabe walks back into the woods.
     Naru looks down at Sarii.
                         NARU
               Home, Sarii, now.
     She signals him -- TiCh-TiCh -- and the dog heads back toward
     camp.

19   EXT. COTTONWOOD TREE - LATER                                 19

     There is a dead POSSUM on the ground near the tree. It’s been
     positioned carefully in the path.
     The possum’s blood trail runs down the trail, leading the
     lion to the trap.
     Naru and Paaka wait in the old tree, braced against the
     sturdy limbs. Dappled moonlight filters through the leaves.
     Naru sharpens her lance. Judging by the pile of wood
     shavings, they’ve been waiting a long while. The eerie
     silence of the forest is all encompassing.
                         PAAKA
               It won’t matter how sharp it is if
               you’re too afraid to use it.
     Naru ignores him. Paaka shakes his head in disgust.
                         PAAKA (CONT'D)
               Women don’t hunt. When your brother
               comes back he and I will find the
               lion and kill it.
     There is a hint of movement in the grass below. Naru’s eyes
     narrow.

                                                  avpgalaxy.net
     What was it?
     Suddenly, Paaka is yanked off his branch -- disappears into
     the grass.
     Naru instantly grabs her bow. Nocks an arrow. Steps forward.
     She scans the tall grass. What took him?!
     There’s nothing. Just tension. And fear.
     The MOUNTIAN LION springs up out of the grass -- leaping at
     Naru in the tree.
     It lands on a low branch.
     Naru fires an arrow at the huge lion.
     It moves forward, undaunted.
     Naru grabs her lance.
     Backs up farther into the tree.
     The lion climbs closer. And closer.
     She jabs the lance at the angry, snarling beast.
     He backs her farther up the branch.
     She’s so far out -- the branch SNAPS.
     As Naru falls she throws her lance.
     She hits the ground. Springs up to her feet.
     And runs.
     At. Full. Speed.
     Her skin shreds as she bounces off the sharp bark of the
     trees. But Naru does not care. She just stared the devil dead
     in the face -- and it pounced.
                           ARUKA (O.S.) (PRE-LAP)
                 Where is your brother?

20   OMITTED                                                        20




                                                    avpgalaxy.net
21   INT. KEHETU’S TIPI - NIGHT                                   21

     Aruka and Naru are standing in the warchief’s tent. Sumu and
     a few other camp ELDERS are there as well. Kehetu is still
     lying on his buffalo skin mat.
     Naru looks at her mother, fighting to hide her shame.
                         NARU
               We got separated.
     She stares at the elders, feeling the pressure of their
     judgement.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               I made my way back alone.
     The others look away. Kehetu turns to Aruka. With great
     effort he manages to sit up.
                         KEHETU
               He will return.
     His words sound like hope, not fact.
                         NARU
               How is Puhi?
                         SUMU
               The medicine you gave him kept him
               alive.
                         GIRL (O.S.)
               Auntie Sumu! Auntie Sumu!
     The adults turn to look as the flap of the tipi opens. The
     young girl steps in. Stops halfway. Stares at the elders.
     She’s struck silent, surprised to see so many faces.
     Kehetu looks at her. Gives the smallest of smiles.
                         KEHETU
               What is it, little one?
     The girl blurts her excitement.
                         GIRL
               Come. Come see!
     She runs back out of the tipi. The others follow.




                                               avpgalaxy.net
22   EXT. NARU'S CAMP - NIGHT                                     22

     The girl runs to the edge of the camp clearing and points out
     into the plain.
     With Wasape’s help, Kehetu walks out of the tipi. Joining
     him, Naru and the others peer out to where she’s indicating.
     In the far distance, a lone figure walks through the tall
     grass toward them.
     He’s carrying something large in his right hand. A bundle of
     some sort. We can’t quite make it out.
     Kehetu looks at the little girl. She smiles back at him. He
     looks back into the field.
     And now we can see. It’s Taabe. His body is soaked in blood.
     As he moves closer we see -- the white band of paint on
     Taabe’s face has been replaced with the blood of the lion.
     In his right hand he grips the head of the beast -- the
     evidence of his successful hunt. The huge animal’s pelt is
     draped over his shoulders. The rest of the lion is dragging
     behind him on a makeshift travois bound to Taabe’s waist.
     Kehetu looks at Wasape, then to Sumu. Sumu nods, she stares
     at her son, he looks away.
     Taabe lays the hunting trophy at Kehetu’s feet.
     As more of the Comanche learn of Taabe’s achievement they
     come running. The young men get as close as they can, women
     watch from nearby.
     Kehetu puts his hands on Taabe’s shoulders. Stares into
     Taabe’s eyes.

23   EXT. NARU'S CAMP - LATER                                     23

     An enormous BONFIRE is burning outside Kehetu’s tipi. Its
     light flickers on the faces of the Comanche in the camp.
     A member of the band plays a HAND DRUM while SINGING softly.
     Naru stands alone, observing from a small, self-imposed
     distance.
     Kehetu is at the front of the crowd, he’s holding a carved
     STAFF, gripping it tightly to help hold himself up.



                                               avpgalaxy.net
The entire camp watches as Kehetu gestures for Taabe to step
forward and join him at the edge of the fire.
Naru looks to the fire. She watches Taabe walk to Kehetu. The
warchief hands the carved staff to Taabe who turns back to
face the camp holding it.
The other young men all step forward. They raise their arms
and let out loud WAR CRIES.
Taabe smiles back in appreciation. He notices that Wasape is
not celebrating. His eyes harden slightly.
Sumu nudges Wasape. He lets out a big WAR CRY.
The rest of the crowd joins in. The women LULU loudly.
Taabe basks in the moment. This is his coronation. He looks
at the beaming faces around him.
Kehetu holds up a hand to silence them.
                    KEHETU
          A new leader stands before us. We
          honor him. But remember, one alone
          does little. We each have a job to
          do.
              (looking at Wasape)
          We don’t always choose our role.
          Some follow, some lead. But to
          survive we must all do our part.
The old warchief stares into his son’s eyes. Wasape nods his
acceptance.
                    KEHETU (CONT'D)
          There is honor in all our work.
The warchief is speaking to his son but we see how his words
affect Naru.
Kehetu raises Taabe’s arm. The crowd erupts again. The old
warchief rests his hand on Taabe’s shoulder. Looks into his
eyes. Then heads back to his tipi.
Naru watches the other young men surround her brother. She
stares for a loaded beat. Then cuts through the crowd,
heading back to her tipi.
Taabe looks past the men surrounding him. Sees his sister
walking away.
He rushes forward to meet her.


                                            avpgalaxy.net
                    TAABE
          I did it, Naru.
Naru stops.
They stand alone together for a moment. Taabe is beaming. He
gives his sister a wide smile. Then sees the apprehensive
look on her face.
                     TAABE (CONT'D (CONT’D)
          I was young when our father died.
          You taught me how to hunt. And
          fight. Raised me to where I am. And
          I’m grateful, pâtsí. Forever.
              (beat)
          Because of you I am ready for this.
Naru looks at him. Shakes her head.
                    NARU
          Something scared that lion off. Why
          else would it leave its den? And
          whatever it is, it’s still out
          there.
Taabe’s face shifts.
                    TAABE
          The forest is full of dangers. It
          always will be.
                    NARU
          This is different.
Taabe looks at her for a beat. Then he smiles knowingly.
                    TAABE
          Naru, it’s done. The challenge was
          given. And met.
                       NARU
          What?
Taabe places his hand on her shoulder.
                    TAABE
          Don’t be jealous of what I’ve
          achieved. You helped make it so.
                    NARU
          Jealous? I’m trying to protect you.




                                             avpgalaxy.net
                         TAABE
               I don’t need protection. I’m not
               your little brother anymore. I’m
               your warchief.
     Taabe gives her a loving look.
                         TAABE (CONT'D)
               You heard Kehetu, we each have a
               role to play.
     A woman carrying breadroot passes by.
                         TAABE (CONT'D)
               There is honor in all of our paths.
     Taabe starts to walk away. Naru grabs him.
                         NARU
               Listen to me ...
     Taabe turns back to her, there’s anger in his face.
                         TAABE
               I did listen, pâtsí. There will
               always be threats. A good warchief
               doesn’t chase every noise in the
               woods. I am the one who leads now.
               If we need another hunting party
               I’ll send it. Right now, we don’t.
     He nods indicating the finality of his word, steps around her
     and joins the other young men who greet him warmly.
     Naru glares at Taabe and the other men celebrating.
     The bonfire reflects in her eyes, its intensity matched by
     her fury.

24   INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAWN                                      24

     It’s early and quiet. The cheers from Taabe’s coronation
     party have grown silent.
     Naru lies asleep on in her bed. Aruka nudges her with her
     foot. Naru’s eyes pop open. She glances at the hearth in the
     center of the tipi, the fire has gone out.
     Yawning, Naru grabs a buffalo hide firewood BAG.
     She glances over at Taabe sleeping peacefully on his bed,
     then heads out, a look of frustration on her face.


                                                  avpgalaxy.net
25    EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF NARU'S CAMP - DAWN                         25

      Naru looks at the half-dozen other young Comanche WOMEN
      heading to do their chores. Among them is a YOUNG MOTHER, her
      BABY strapped to her back.
      The young girl who announced Taabe’s return exits her tipi
      rubbing sleep from her eyes and begins her chores as well.
      They are all headed in the same direction. Walking toward the
      river.
      Naru watches for a beat. Then she stops.

26    INT. NARU'S TIPI - DAWN                                      26

      Naru enters. Drops the empty bag back by the fire. Grabs her
      bow. Quickly and silently packs up her gear.
      Sleeping by the door, Sarii cracks an eye as Naru exits. He
      springs to his feet and follows her out.

26A   OMITTED                                                    26A

26B   EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAWN                                    26B

      As the woman of the camp all head to do their chores, Naru
      walks in the opposite direction, followed by Sarii.

26C   MONTAGE -- VARIOUS WOODED AREAS - DAY                      26C

      Naru and Sarii walk along a creek.
      They continue through the wildness, beginning their journey.

27    EXT. PRAIRIE’S EDGE - DAY                                    27

      Naru and Sarii move along the edge of the FOREST.
      They walk.
      And walk.
      Naru comes through the tree line and is able to see into a
      vast, open plain.




                                                 avpgalaxy.net
     Small red MOUNDS dot the landscape. A curious expression
     comes across Naru's face.

28   EXT. PRAIRIE - LATER                                        28

     As Naru and Sarii get closer we see what the mounds are -
     skinned BUFFALO CARCASSES. Dozens of them litter the plain.
     Naru looks out at the rotting remains. No Comanche would
     perpetrate this type of slaughter.
     Looking closer she spots a BULLET HOLE in the SKULL of the
     animal before her. Naru examines it closely -- the wound is
     nothing like any she’s seen before.
     She kneels and places her palm between the horns. Closes her
     eyes and incants a small, quiet prayer.
     Naru stands, a look of disgust and outrage flooding her face.
     She walks to a charred spot in the grass. Evidence of a
     smallcampfire. Naru feels the embers, she puts her hand right
     in, they are long cold.
     Scanning the ground she spots something -- the chewed BUTT of
     a rough-hewn CIGAR. Naru picks it up, sniffs it, makes a sour
     face, tosses it away.
                          NARU
               We’re going to find whatever it is
               out there.
     She looks down at Sarii.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               And we’re gonna kill it.

29   OMITTED                                                     29

30   EXT. FOREST - DAY                                           30

     There’s movement in the trees above. A limb creaks under the
     weight of something heavy.
     The Predator’s big feet splash down into the creek we saw
     Naru pass as she headed out.
     From behind the alien we see him studying the ground. He
     spots Naru and Sarii’s tracks.



                                               avpgalaxy.net
31    OMITTED                                                      31

32    OMITTED                                                      32

32A   EXT. PINE GROVE - LATER                                    32A

      A COTTONTAIL pops its head up out of a broken stump, sniffs
      the air, eats a fallen berry.
      SHUNNKK -- Naru’s tomahawk slams into the stump -- a half *
      second too late. The rabbit is gone.
      As Naru goes to retrieve her weapon a second rabbit scurries
      across the leaf-covered ground right in front of her. Damn.
      She dives to grab the tomahawk, pivots and hucks it at the
      rabbit -- a shortstop turning a double play. The hatchet
      skips off the ground, and just barely misses the second
      cottontail.
      Sarii looks on as Naru sits in the leaves. Two more rabbits
      cross right by her. Damn it.
      She dusts herself off and picks up the hatchet. Turns it over
      in her hands, regarding the weapon, thinking of something.

33    EXT. PINE GROVE - LATER                                      33

      Sarii watches as Naru manufactures a natural rope:
      Using her flint knife, she splits a thin branch.
      Braids the lengths of cut material together.
      Stretches them taut.
      Examines the length of finished ROPE.
      Ties it carefully around the tomahawk’s handle.

33A   EXT. PINE GROVE - DAY33A 33A                               33A

      Naru feels the weapon in her hand. Finding its center of
      balance.
      She throws -- the hatchet sticks into a tree -- she yanks the
      rope -- the weapon sails back toward her -- but she misses
      catching it!



                                                avpgalaxy.net
      Naru picks it up. Throws. Hits. Pulls back. This time she
      catches it.
      She throws again. It hits. She pulls -- catches -- throws.
      Pulls -- catches -- throws. Pulls -- catches -- throws.
      Naru stands between two trees. There’s an X in each one.
      There’s a faint RUSTLE behind her. Two cottontails run along
      the forest floor. Naru smiles.

34    SCENE 34 HAS BECOME SCENE 36                                 34

35    OMITTED                                                      35

36    EXT. GRASSLAND BELOW MESA - DAY                              36

      Naru walks out of the woods into the open land. There’s a
      rope slung across her back, FOUR RABBITS hanging from it.
      Sarii eyes them hungrily. Lets out a small yelp. Naru gives
      him an admonishing look.
                          NARU
                Come on, we’ll eat soon.
      She moves on, heading toward a distant MESA with sparse trees
      growing on the side slopes.

36A   EXT. PRAIRIE’S EDGE - DAY                                   36A

      A heavy branch on a tall pine by the tree line bordering the
      prairie CREAKS as it bends.
      A THUD as the Predator drops into the dirt below.
      We stay on his feet as he walks into the field and stops at a
      buffalo carcass. He too examines the dead animal, touches its
      skull.
      He scans the ground. Sees the faint evidence of Naru's
      footprints in the matted grass.

37    EXT. MESA TOP - DAY                                          37

      Naru walks the edge of the flat topped hill. The view is
      astounding. She studies the miles of surrounding land.



                                                avpgalaxy.net
     She grabs up some kindling and heads back into the tree line
     away from the mesa’s edge.
     She’s prepping a small FIRE. Naru drops the kindling in.
     Crouches and lights it.

38   EXT. MESA TOP FIRE - DUSK                                    38

     Three skewered cottontails roast over the flame of Naru's
     fire. Sarii stares at the feast, his wet tongue dangling in
     anticipation.
     Naru turns the skewer, pulls a cooked rabbit and tosses it to
     the dog. As Sarii devours it, Naru looks at the tomahawk
     lying on the hide by her thigh and smiles.
     She pulls some food for herself. Rolls out her buffalo hide.
     Settles in for the night.

39   EXT. MESA TOP FIRE - MORNING                                 39

     Naru and Sarii sit looking out at the view.
     She gets up and begins to break camp. Filling in the fire
     pit, scattering the sticks.
     Sarii watches as Naru packs the last cooked rabbit into her
     satchel. She walks to the edge of the mesa.
     Naru shields her eyes with her hand as she peers down at a
     distant STREAM running through the woods. Sunlight glints off
     the surface of the moving water.
     She looks back at Sarii, who still lies on the ground. She
     shakes her head at him.
                          NARU
               Come on.
     The dog doesn’t move.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               I like it up here too. But we’re
               gonna find what left those tracks.
     She starts down the side of the mesa. Sarii follows.

40   EXT. FOREST, TRAIL, SPIKY STUMP - DAY                        40

     An ominous-looking TREE STUMP with numerous SPIKY, BROKEN
     PIECES jutting upwards.

                                               avpgalaxy.net
     Its gnarled roots meet the ground by a faint TRACK in the
     dirt. [Note: this is a bear track that Naru reads as a
     possible Predator footprint, they are similar in appearance.]
     Naru studies the print.
     Sarii walks over carrying a long STICK.
     She takes the stick from him, measures the distance between
     the print and the one that preceded it.
     Naru breaks the stick at the matching length then uses it to
     find the faint outline of the next print moving forward.

41   EXT. MESA TOP - DAY                                          41

     From behind we watch the Predator examine the ground. He
     finds the charred BONES from Naru and Sarii’s meal.
     He de-cloaks.
     Attached to his loincloth, next to the snake’s skull, he now
     has the skull of a WOLF.
     The Predator removes his BACKPACK. He reaches inside and
     takes out two types of METALLIC OBJECTS. One is a spherical
     shape (END), the other a coiled, sectional device (CUT-
     CLAMP). He attaches a few of each to his loin cloth.
     He reaches back into the ruck and withdraws a strange WEAPON.
     The sun gleams off of its razor-sharp projectiles.
     As he assembles the device we see what it is: a Predator
     CROSSBOLT -- the analog version of the Predator’s classic
     three pronged laser cannon.
     The Predator activates the weapon. Loads it. Moves on.

42   OMITTED                                                      42

43   OMITTED                                                      43

44   EXT. MUD PIT - DAY                                           44

     Naru steps out of the plants into the open space. Sarii
     wanders off laterally, darts after something in the trees.
     Naru scans the terrain. The ground in the small clearing is
     covered in moss. But oddly there’s no stream. A quiet RUMBLE
     fills the air. The low gurgle of rushing water.

                                               avpgalaxy.net
     Naru takes a step forward toward a ROCK FORMATION on the
     other side of the moss -- but suddenly the moss below her
     gives way -- Naru sinks knee deep into the mud below.
     Naru yanks her leg free but in doing so her other foot breaks
     through the moss, sending her further into the sinkhole. Both
     her feet are now submerged in thick, viscid mud.
     She drops her bow and uses her hands to try to pull herself
     free -- but it only worsens her position.
     Naru scrambles to free herself but it has the opposite effect
     -- she sinks chest deep into the liquid clay. The sound of
     the underground stream is louder now as muddy water bubbles
     up and Naru sinks deeper and deeper in.
     The mud is up to her neck now. Naru continues to drop. Her
     chin dips below the muck. Naru's mouth fills.
     Her face contorts as Naru strains with great effort, her
     movements concealed under the surface of the mud.
     Just when it looks like she’s going under for good -- her arm
     pops up out -- holding her tomahawk.
     Naru grunts as she maneuvers. She wipes mud from her eyes.
     Cocks her arm back. Throws the tomahawk as hard as possible.
     The hatchet sails through the air, strikes the base of the
     rock formation and slides off. Damn it.
     Naru reels in the rope. Throws again.
     This time the hatchet blade wedges itself into a small
     crevice in the rocks. Naru pulls hard. The rope digs into her
     wrist -- but it works.
     She hauls herself up out of the mud until she’s lying flat on
     the moss and then reels her body toward the rocks.

45   EXT. BASE OF ROCK FORMATION - DAY                            45

     Naru, caked in mud, stands at the base of the rocks, freeing
     her tomahawk from where it’s wedged.
     She gets it out. Examines the blade.

46   EXT. POND’S EDGE - DAY                                       46

     Naru sits by the edge of the small pond. She’s clean but wet,
     having washed off.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
     Naru wipes the mud off of her bowstring. She cups a handful
     of water from the pond to clean the weapon.
     Sarii walks back out of the trees, carrying a small ANIMAL in
     his mouth.
                         NARU
               There you are.
     Studying the ground she finds more tracks [Note: these prints
     are the same as in scene 40, bear tracks that Naru thinks are
     the Predator’s]. Back on the hunt, she follows the trail.

47   EXT. FOREST, CLIFF BY MOUNTAINSIDE STREAM - DAY           47

     Naru steps out of the woods looking down from a low cliff at
     a stream below. The tracks are clearly visible in the wet
     dirt by the bank.
     Naru looks up ahead. A gigantic BROWN BEAR is moving up the
     stream toward a BEAVER DAM. The fur on the bear’s belly and
     legs is clotted with mud -- this is the animal Naru has been
     tracking.
                         NARU
                   (to herself)
               It was a bear.
     Naru looks at the grass on the side of the stream. The wind
     is bending it back toward her.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
                   (to Sarii)
               Stay downwind.
     Staying behind the bear, she moves toward it.

48   EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY                                   48

     Naru keeps her eyes on her target. The bear rounds a corner
     at the bottom of the mountain, nearing the beaver dam.
     She checks the grass. Sees the wind is still working in her
     favor. She moves closer to the bear.

49   EXT. OPPOSING HILL - DAY                                  49

     From across the stream we watch Naru. Below her, around the
     base of the rocks, the bear continues to examine the beaver
     dam, sniffing it.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
     Suddenly a blurred outline steps into view. The Predator.
     He uncloaks and stares out at the view. Turning on his
     Predator vision, he watches Naru.

50   EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE LEDGE - DAY                                50

     Ready to take her shot, Naru pulls her bow.
     Nocks an arrow.
     Draws back -- the wet bowstring snaps! Shit!
     Immediately she surveys the damage to her bow. Attempts to
     restring the weapon.
     Below her, the bear explores the dam.
     Then suddenly -- the wind shifts!
     The bear sniffs -- then turns -- it sees Naru! Roars.
     Her cover blown, Naru scrambles to quickly fix her bow.

51   EXT. OPPOSING HILL - DAY                                     51

     In Predator vision, the Predator watches Naru, zooming in on
     her as she works to repair her weapon.
     Then he pans over. Watching the giant bear as it begins to
     head up the steep incline toward Naru.

52   EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE LEDGE - DAY                                52

     Still scrambling to retie her bowstring, Naru watches the
     bear move closer.
     The bear is almost to her -- her bow remains untied --
     suddenly Sarii runs down into the woods -- barking madly.
     The bear turns. It charges -- chasing Sarii toward the trees.
     Naru gets the bow restrung -- slides down the slope, off the
     edge as she nocks an arrow.
     Aiming, Naru scans the woods for Sarii and the bear.
     Suddenly Sarii bolts back out.
     Behind him -- the bear.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
     Naru fires. Her aim is true. The arrow lodges into the bear.
     But it keeps charging.
     Naru turns. Runs.

53   EXT. STREAM BANK - DAY                                       53

     Naru scrambles, sprinting down the stream. Sarii is just
     ahead of her. Beyond him, the beaver dam.
     Racing through the knee-deep water, Naru looks back at the
     bear. Her arrow juts out of its thick hide, a mere annoyance
     to the mighty beast.
     Naru plows on -- reaches the beaver dam -- dives under and
     in.

54   INT. BEAVER DAM - CONTINUOUS                                 54

     Naru pops up into the small darkened dam.
     She pulls herself farther in. Turns onto her back. Looks up
     at the tangled nest of heavy branches that form the dam.
     Outside she hears the huge bear SNORT and SNIFF.
     Suddenly a paw tears into the dam -- its thick claws swipe
     just above Naru's face.

55   EXT. STREAM - DAY                                            55

     From behind the bear we watch as it menaces the dam,
     furiously trying to get to Naru inside.

56   INT. BEAVER DAM - DAY                                        56

     Naru looks up in terror. The bear shoves its huge snout down
     into the gap it created with its paw. Its jaw snaps open as
     it snarls angrily at Naru.
     Then suddenly the bear steps back.
     Naru peers out through the jagged opening in the dam.
     The bear is snarling and circling -- it’s facing off against
     something. But what? From inside, Naru's view is limited.
     The huge beast circles. Goes up on its hind legs. Roars.


                                                 avpgalaxy.net
     Naru looks out, struggling to gain vantage.
     The huge bear crashes backwards into the water -- leaps back
     up to its feet -- swipes at the air.
     Glowing GREEN BLOOD MARKS appear -- floating where the bear’s
     claws scratched the invisible Predator’s skin.
     The alien, still cloaked, crashes down into the stream.
     The bear moves around it -- blocking Naru's view.
     Then suddenly the huge bear backs up. It moves closer and
     closer to Naru -- she retreats back from the hole in the dam
     but is stuck in its confines -- the bear crashes backwards
     down onto the dam, smashing the structure apart.
     The huge animal is still. Dead. Naru stares into its lifeless
     jaws.
     Then suddenly, the bear’s body rises. The enormous animal
     floats, suspended in the air above the shattered dam.
     Cowering inside the tangle of wood, Naru watches as the
     bear’s blood runs down, revealing what’s holding up its
     carcass --
     The Predator. His outline made visible by the bear’s blood.
     Naru stares in awe of the powerful alien.
     Wrenching her eyes away, she turns. Scrambles through the
     wrecked dam, fleeing. She submerges into the stream -- pops
     up outside of the dam, and paddles downstream.

57   EXT. STREAM - DAY                                            57

     Swimming hard, Naru moves away from the dam.
     Sarii appears at the bank of the stream, barking.
     Naru tries to swim to him but the current is quick here.
     She’s pushed farther along. Rounds a bend. The stream widens.
     It’s a river here. Rapids.
     Naru is drifting fast. She looks back at Sarii who recedes
     into the distance. The water is moving very quickly -- she’s
     swept along.
     Seeing she can’t make it to the bank in time, Naru takes a
     deep breath -- crashes into the intense rapids.



                                                 avpgalaxy.net
58   EXT. RIVER BEYOND RAPIDS - DAY                               58

     The water is more mellow here. Naru's head pops up above the
     waterline. She inhales deeply. Swims towards the bank.

59   EXT. RIVER BANK - LATER                                      59

     All of Naru’s warpaint has washed off. She wrings the water
     out of a soggy leather boot. Slips it back on and steps into
     the woods.

60   EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY                                      60

     Naru walks stealthily. The light that filters through the
     tree tops is dappled and diffuse. Creepy.
     Still wet from the river, she squeezes water from her braids.
     A noise to her side -- a branch SNAPPING.
     Naru draws her tomahawk. Moves in.
     She sees Itsee aiming his bow back at her.
                         NARU
               What are you doing here?
     Itsee lowers his bow. Wasape steps out of trees with Huupi,
     and ANIA [”Ahneeah”](21).
                         WASAPE
               Looking for you. Your brother sent
               us to bring you home.
                         NARU
               That’s a waste of time.
                         WASAPE
                   (mean smile)
               I agree. But he’s warchief now.
                         NARU
               Where is he?
                         WASAPE
               Searching for you on the other side
               of the pass.
     Naru starts to walk away.




                                                  avpgalaxy.net
                    WASAPE
          Where are you going?
Itsee moves in front of her. Naru stops. Turns to Wasape.
                      NARU
          I saw it.
                      WASAPE
          Saw what?
                    NARU
          The beast that made the track in
          the camp. The one that drove the
          lion off.
                      WASAPE
          The bear?
                    NARU
          A bear. And another. Something
          huge.
                      WASAPE
          What?
Naru struggles to find words to describe the Predator.
                     NARU
          It was invisible. But when it
          killed the bear its body showed in
          the blood. It was a ... I don’t
          know ...
              (goes for it)
          A moopits.
There’s silence for a beat. Then Wasape breaks into a loud
laugh. The others join in.
                    WASAPE
          You saw a monster from a children’s
          story?
The warriors give Naru incredulous looks.
                    NARU
          It fought the bear with just its
          hands. Killed it easily.
Wasape shakes his head.
                    WASAPE
          Enough. We’re not safe here. There
          are real dangers.
                    (MORE)

                                             avpgalaxy.net
                    WASAPE (CONT'D)
          Not just demons from stories that
          frighten little girls.
He walks to Naru and grabs her arm.
                    WASAPE (CONT'D)
          We’re going home now. Don’t worry,
          I’ll tuck you in if you have any
          more bad dreams.
Naru jerks her arm free, draws her tomahawk and glares at
him. Wasape gives her a big, dumb smile -- I dare you.
Naru slowly lowers the weapon. Starts to walk again.
                    NARU
          I’m going to finish my hunt.
Wasape steps in front of her.
                    WASAPE
          Hunting what? A monster? I don’t
          know what you saw. But even if it
          is real, you tried this already
          with the lion. You ran.
Naru's face falls. Wasape nods knowingly, enjoying this.
                     WASAPE (CONT'D)
          Your brother told me.
              (beat)
          It's time to come home.
Naru looks into Wasape’s eyes. She screws up her courage --
she is not going to back down.
                    NARU
          I saw it. And I am going to finish
          my hunt.
She looks past the big man, into the faces of the other
warriors.
                    NARU (CONT'D)
          Would you leave a hunt?
They stare back in silence, unable to answer.
Naru turns away and starts back on the trail.
Wasape rushes forward and blocks her way again.
                    WASAPE
          We’re going back to the camp.

                                          avpgalaxy.net
                     NARU
          You are.
A standoff. Tense. They stare with hatred.
Wasape lurches toward Naru -- who pivots and, using the big
man’s mass against himself, sends him to the ground.
Wasape reaches up and brute-force hauls her down too.
They grapple. Naru is a ferocious competitor. Knowing she
can’t beat him on strength, Naru fights smart. She’s
undaunted by the 50-plus pounds Wasape has on her.
Using her fists, knees and elbows she rains down a storm of
well placed strikes on any unprotected pressure point. She
lands a particularly well-aimed punch to Wasape’s crotch,
folding the big man over.
Furious, Wasape charges, fist cocked back -- Naru retreats
and at the last second, jukes, and trips Wasape -- sending
him crashing to the floor again.
Enraged, the huge man springs up. He lurches forward -- and
finally connects with a punch -- sending Naru staggering
back.
Itsee calls to Wasape.
                    ITSEE
          Careful, someone will get hurt.
Naru shakes her head to clear it -- and charges Wasape.
                    NARU
          Yes, someone will!
Wasape smiles as Naru tackles him to the ground. He ties her
up in a firm hold.
Naru strains to get free, overpowered by his mass. Wasape
hauls her in front of him and slips the nook of his meaty arm
around her neck -- squeezing her into a choke hold.
Naru's face begins to redden. She moves her head -- chomps
down, biting hard into his forearm. Wasape jerks away
instinctively. Naru leaps to her feet.
The big man gets up. He looks at Naru standing before him --
fists up, ready to go. They’re both breathing heavily.
Wasape studies the teeth marks on his arm. Relenting, he
raises his hands with his palms out -- OK, enough.


                                             avpgalaxy.net
61   EXT. FOREST, NEARBY - SAME                                   61

     Perched on the branch of a tall tree, the blurred outline of
     the Predator appears. He stops. Looks down at the Comanche
     below.
     In Predator vision he scans the warriors. Zooms in on Wasape.

62   EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY                                      62

     Wasape rubs the bite mark on his arm. Glares at Naru.
                         WASAPE
               Fine. You want to leave, go.
     Naru looks at him for a beat. Licks her split lip and spits.
     Then she lowers her fists.
     The instant she does, Wasape springs forward and hammers a
     right cross directly into her jaw.
     Naru drops, woozy. Before she can recover, Wasape grabs her.
     Bends her arms back. Binds her wrists with a leather strap.

63   EXT. FOREST, NEARBY - SAME                                   63

     The Predator watches Wasape haul Naru up to her feet where
     she stands on shaky legs. Wasape shoves her forward, Itsee
     grabs her arm.

64   EXT. FOREST TRAIL - DAY                                      64

     Wasape leads Naru to sit with her back against a downed tree
     trunk. Itsee gives him a look.
                         WASAPE
               You like being bit? She fights like
               a man, she can fall like a man.
     Wasape checks the bite mark on his arm. Gives Naru a dirty
     look. He reaches down and takes Naru’s tomahawk. He examines
     the customized weapon, a derisive smile on his face.
                         WASAPE (CONT'D)
               You need a leash so you don’t lose
               it?
     Naru doesn’t give him the satisfaction of a response. Wasape
     tucks the hatchet in his belt then grabs her water and
     empties it over the bite mark.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
          WASAPE (CONT'D)
We rest a minute, then head back.
Staying together.
          ITSEE
What about Taabe?




                                avpgalaxy.net
                         WASAPE
               He’ll meet us at the camp.
     Itsee steps into the woods. Wasape shoots him a look.
                         WASAPE (CONT'D)
               I said stay together.
                         ITSEE
               I’m going to take a crap. You want
               me to do it here?
     Wasape lets him go. Then turns to Huupi.
                         WASAPE
                   (demanding)
               Water.
     Huupi gives Wasape a defiant look but tosses him his canteen.
     Wasape drinks.

65   EXT. DEEP FOREST - DAY                                     65

     Itsee adjusts his breechcloth and kicks a pile of leaves over
     the small hole he just used.
     As he walks back toward camp he pulls leaves off a bush, rubs
     them briskly between his palms and tosses them aside.
     Continuing, he slows. A funny look comes across his face. He
     stops. Turns slowly.
     Itsee stands silent in the forest, listening.
     The sound of BRANCHES moving.
     Itsee stares up at the trees, a terrified look on his face.

66   EXT. DEEP FOREST TRAIL - DAY                               66

     Naru flexes her jaw while peering up at Wasape. She checks
     her surroundings. The other warriors are packing up to move
     on.
     Naru starts to get up. She’s unsteady on her feet. Uses the
     log for balance as she rises.
                         WASAPE
               You don’t need to get up.
     Naru continues to get to her feet. Wasape puts his hand on
     her shoulder and firmly pushes her back down against the log.

                                                avpgalaxy.net
                      WASAPE (CONT'D)
          Just sit.
Naru slips back to the ground. Wasape touches his lip where
it’s split from his fight with Naru. He reaches down and
tears her medicine pouch off her necklace.
Naru strains to get up -- then stops suddenly and listens.
There’s a rustling in the woods. Something moving.
Naru snaps into action -- she instantly ducks down beside the
log.
The other Comanche warriors look nervously to Wasape for what
to do. He just stands still, watching Naru.
The sound gets closer -- and suddenly -- a family of POSSUMS
scurries through the camp.
Ania shoots one of the possums with his bow.
Wasape breaks into a fit of laughter. The other Comanche
start laughing too. Naru doesn’t change her expression.
Hysterical, Wasape points at her.
                    WASAPE (CONT'D)
          You should see your face.
                     NARU
          What do you think drove the possums
          toward us?
Wasape just laughs. He strolls arrogantly toward the woods
where the possums exited.
Looking back at Naru he grins -- what are you afraid of?
Three bright red LASER POINTS appear on his chest. They
instantly spread out -- one over his heart, one over his
liver and one on his eye socket.
Wasape reaches up, examines the light on his hand -- THWIIP!!
Three razor sharp arrows pierce the big man, right on target.
As Wasape drops, the Predator steps into the camp.
The remaining Comanche warriors stare in stunned silence,
they look at Naru -- holy shit, she was right!
                    NARU (CONT'D)
          Cut me loose.

                                          avpgalaxy.net
Ignoring her, the warriors stare into the clearing, searching
for the cloaked Predator.
                       HUUPI
          Stay down.
Naru crawls to where she can peer over the log. Watches the
battle unfold.
Huupi draws his bow -- fires arrows with incredible speed.
Three of them careen off the invisible blur as the Predator
closes the distance between himself and the warrior.
The Predator steps to within a foot of Huupi -- who draws his
flint knife and charges -- the Predator sidesteps. Huupi
turns and moves back toward his foe holding his knife at the
ready.
The Predator’s cloak flickers again. He looks at the weapon
in Huupi’s hand then slides out his wrist blades.
Huupi waits. When the Predator flickers into view, he lurches
forward, lunging to stab.
Using his gauntlet to block, the Predator deflects the knife
then slices his wrist blades across Huupi’s abdomen -- Huupi
doubles over as the Predator brings the blades back up. And
cuts Huupi’s head off.
He turns to face Huupi, who grips a lance.
Naru looks from the fight over to Wasape’s body. Sees her
satchel under his body.
The Predator activates his COMBISTICK. Ania watches the alien
weapon extend, then the cloak activates again, concealing the
Predator.
Ania charges and the two foes duel, parrying with their
similarly shaped weapons.
Seeing her opening, Naru runs to Wasape’s body. Her wrists
still bound, she works to get her tomahawk free from his
belt.
Back in the fight, Ania manages to slam the flint blade of
his lance into the center of the Predator’s chest plate --
the weapon’s crude flint tip shatters on his armor.
Ania rotates the lance. Using the other end -- a sharpened
wooden point -- he spears down -- the spike drives into the
Predator’s foot, his cloak flickers off. He lets out a roar
of pain and steps back, kicking the lance loose.


                                             avpgalaxy.net
     It sails over to where Naru is retrieving her hatchet.
     Naru pulls it free -- spins it so the blade is against her
     leather bindings -- jams the flint edge through the cord --
     catches the handle in her now-free hands.
     She grabs her medicine pouch, ties it back around her neck.
     The Predator swipes the bladed end of the combistick --
     slicing Ania’s chest.
     Undaunted, Ania squares up against the invisible Predator. He
     stares past the alien at Naru. Slowly, ominously, the
     Predator turns, following Ania’s gaze.
     His camouflage flickers as he locks eyes with Naru. Then he
     turns invisible again. Naru runs.
     Behind her, our only understanding of the Predator comes from
     the combistick which splits into two pieces mid-air.
     We see the floating combisticks fell Ania.
     Naru tears through the trees, running at full force away from
     the battle.

67   EXT. TALL GRASSY PLAIN - DAY                                 67

     Naru emerges from the tree line sprinting.
     The tall, pale grass whips against her skin. She runs hard
     without looking back.
     About 100 paces into the grass, Naru YELPS as she’s tripped,
     brought down by someone hiding in the field.

68   INT. INSIDE THE TALL GRASS - DAY                             68

     Itsee is lying in wait in the grass. He signals Naru to be
     silent.
     For a tense beat they sit, covered by the grass, breathing
     deeply. Waiting. There is nothing but the sound of the wind
     passing through the grass.
     Then footsteps. Heavy footsteps.
     Naru and Itsee peer out. The grass by the tree line parts --
     driven aside by the Predator’s invisible form.
     He gets closer.


                                                  avpgalaxy.net
And closer.
Stops 20 feet in front of them -- he is right there.
clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick
Itsee reaches to his quiver -- nocks his arrow -- draws it
back -- aims through the tall grass.
                    ITSEE
              (whispering)
          We have him.
Naru shakes her head.
                    NARU
          No. He has us.
As she says the words, the Predator’s red lasers shine
through the tall grass -- Naru grabs Itsee’s arm -- turns --
yanks him with her -- the Predator’s arrows miss by inches.
Naru and Itsee sprint away -- the grass behind them parts --
the Predator is running after them.
Naru pulls ahead -- the Predator gains on Itsee -- he’s
closer -- and closer -- inches away --
Itsee drops -- blood sprays the grass -- Naru keeps running --
behind her the Predator gives chase, his faint outline coated
in Itsee’s blood.
Naru sprints for the next patch of TREES. She clears the edge
of the grass -- leaps over a downed log -- CLINKK -- Naru
jerks back -- slams to the ground like she’s hit the end of a
leash.
We come over the log and see what stopped Naru: her ankle is
clamped in the metal jaws of a SMALL FUR TRAP.
Naru uses her free leg to stand. She bends down to examine
the trap. Blood trickles from where the metal teeth have
pierced her flesh. She pulls her flint knife from her boot.
The trap shattered the blade, but her wound is less serious
that it could have been. Naru grabs the trap. Tries to open
it. Stares back at the edge of the grass.
The tall blades part -- the invisible Predator arrives -- it
steps over the log -- the chain connected to the trap on
Naru's ankle floats as the Predator lifts it off the ground.
clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick


                                          avpgalaxy.net
     Naru stares at the gap in the tall grass.
     Suddenly, behind her, the sound of FOOTFALLS. Lots of them.
     The chain drops with a CLANG. The grass parts -- the outline
     of the Predator disappears back into it.
     Naru returns her attention to prying open the trap.
                         MALE VOICE (O.S.)
               Regardez ici.
     Naru looks behind her -- A pack of French FUR TRAPPERS aim
     their smoothbore MUSKETS at her face.
     A large, HEAVILY BEARDED trapper (30s) with a rough CIGAR
     clenched in his teeth, steps forward. Examines Naru.
     [NOTE: THE TRAPPERS SPEAK FRENCH WITH SUBTITLES]
                         BIG BEARD
                   (surprised)
               A woman.
     A trapper with a WAXED MUSTACHE (30s), joins his compatriots.
     He’s holding a rope LEASH -- at the end of it is Sarii. He’s
     muzzled and pulling against the trapper.
                         WAXED MUSTACHE
               What’s she doing out here?
     Big Beard shakes his head. He looks into the grass in the
     direction where Naru came from.
                         WAXED MUSTACHE (CONT'D)
               She’ll slow us down.
     Big Beard hammers the butt stock of his musket down onto
     Naru’s head. She crumples to the ground unconscious.
                         BIG BEARD
               I’ll carry her. The way she was
               running, I think she’s seen it.

69   EXT. BEAR CAGE, TRAPPERS’ CAMP - NIGHT                       69

     Naru's eyes open as she comes to. She doesn’t move. She peers
     out of wood slats. A rough-hewn crate. She’s folded up on the
     bottom.




                                                 avpgalaxy.net
Naru adjusts her position in the crate to get a better look
through the slats. Sarii is next to her, lying on his side,
still bound. The dog looks up at Naru.
Naru reaches out and touches his nose. Then she feels the
wooden box surrounding her. The crate is old and worn but
it’s solid enough to keep her in.
She touches the spot where the trapper hit her face. Winces.
She’s got the beginnings of a black eye. Naru shifts her
body. Looks down at her leg.
The puncture wounds from the trap are swollen and continue to
bleed. She examines the cuts.
She peers out of the crate. In the distance she sees the two
men that captured her. They are seated by a small fire with
TWO DOZEN TRAPPERS. Several HORSES graze in a small field
near the fire.
The men are speaking French in hushed tones. They’re far
enough away that she wouldn’t be able to tell what they’re
saying even if she spoke their language.
The man with the big beard is giving orders to the others,
who are making adjustments on a large piece of equipment.
Naru can’t see what it is but we hear what sounds like CHAINS
being coiled on the ground.
Laying prone on the cage floor, Naru rocks back and forth.
She whispers a quiet prayer.
                    NARU
          Taabe, brother, please, come help
          me.
Naru slowly sits. Through gritted teeth she finishes her
angry prayer.
                    NARU (CONT'D)
          Help me kill all of them.
Naru opens her eyes. She adjusts her position in the crate.
Studies the trapper’s camp. There’s not much to it. A hastily
put together outpost.
Bloody, half-cured ANIMAL SKINS lie in piles throughout the
camp. Hunks of rotting meat nearby. Flies buzz around a mound
of ENTRAILS.
The trappers have set their long guns in a pyramid by the
rest of their gear. Coils of ROPE and CHAIN sit next to a
series of TRAPS. Tall stacks of BUFFALO HIDES are piled high.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
Sarii lies on the ground near the gear. The rope around his
muzzle keeps him from barking. His four feet are bound
together as well -- all he can do is watch powerlessly.
Across from Naru there’s another CRATE.
Naru returns her attention to her wounded leg. She pulls her
medicine pouch and begins to separate out the appropriate
herbs.
Checking to see that they’re not watching, Naru looks back at
the trappers. Two of them are stacking TRAPS, they have a lot
of them.
Big Beard watches them work. He nods with satisfaction then
points to Naru's crate. The trappers walk toward her. Seeing
them coming, Naru quickly stashes her medicine.
As the men approach, Naru stares defiantly into their ugly
faces, unafraid. She sees the stub end of a rough CIGAR in
the corner of Big Beard’s mouth, recognizes it from the camp
near the buffalo slaughter.
Waxed Mustache leans over Naru's cage and peers in at her. He
turns to Big Beard.
                    WAXED MUSTACHE
          What’s a woman doing so far out?
Big Beard picks up a stick, slides it into the crate and
pokes Naru. As she recoils the trappers laugh, showing their
decaying teeth.
                    BIG BEARD
          Let’s see what she knows.
Big Beard signals to two of his men and they step forward to
get her out of the crate. As the lead mean reaches in to Naru
she kicks him back -- hard. The second man stops.
Big Beard shoves the stick into the crate and jabs at Naru's
wounded leg with it. When she grabs for the stick, he
withdraws it quickly then swings it back in, smacking her on
top of the head.
Big Beard turns to one of his men, RAPHAEL (20s), pasty-
faced. He says something in French. Raphael turns to Naru.
                    RAPHAEL
          Will you come out?
[RAPHAEL SPEAKS FRENCH WITH HIS CREW AND COMANCHE WITH NARU]



                                             avpgalaxy.net
Naru looks at him. Surprised to hear the man speaking her
language.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          I speak a lot of languages.
Still she gives no reply.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          You are coming out of there one way
          or another, why make it hurt?
Naru glares at him without responding.
Raphael looks at Big Beard and shakes his head.
                    BIG BEARD
              (to his men)
          Get her out of that damn box.
Four trappers attempt the task and it takes all four of them
to yank Naru out and hold her. Big Beard speaks French and
Raphael translates.
                    RAPHAEL
          You should be helping us. We may
          hurt you. But that thing out there
          will peel you alive.
Naru's face shows her surprise that they know about the
Predator. Big Beard spits out more French.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          We know it made your camp. That’s
          what you were running from.
Naru's expression shows Big Beard that his guess was right.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          You were going to hide from it?
Naru's eyes light up with anger. She looks at Big Beard with
pure defiant rage.
                    NARU
          I was going to kill it.
Raphael translates.
Big Beard gives a hearty laugh. He gestures to one of the men
who hands him something.




                                            avpgalaxy.net
The big trapper leans in close and puts what he’s holding
right by Naru's face -- a LEAF -- covered in bright green
PREDATOR BLOOD. Raphael translates.
                    RAPHAEL
          You? You think you could kill this
          beast?
Naru stares at the green blood on the leaf.
                    NARU
          If it bleeds, I can kill it.
Big Beard smiles and shakes his head. He tells Raphael what
to say in French.
                    RAPHAEL
          If you were smart you’d help us. It
          killed your whole party.
Naru looks up at him defiantly.
                    NARU
          It didn’t kill everyone.
Raphael turns to Big Beard and translates. The big man looks
at Naru. He gives an ugly smile. Then walks to the crate
across from her. Kicks it open.
There is someone inside. He turns to Naru. It’s Taabe.
His arms and legs are bound. He’s clearly taken a beating at
the hands of the trappers. The pain in his eyes is palpable.
The sight of Taabe imprisoned is devastating for Naru. She
may not say it but Taabe is her hero, her rock. And now he’s
boxed in like an animal. Naru has never been angrier in her
life.
Big Beard says something to Raphael. He translates for Naru.
                    RAPHAEL
          One way or another, you are going
          to help us.
Big Beard signals to his men and they drag Taabe out.
Naru strains in fury against the trappers holding her but she
can not overpower them. The men bring her hands together as
Big Beard walks behind her.
He pulls a length of rope from around his waist and deftly
binds Naru's wrists. Then shoves her forward, sending her
landing on her face.

                                          avpgalaxy.net
     Big Beard points to Taabe and barks at his men.
                         BIG BEARD
               Get him bleeding.
     Behind her, the men cut a line across Taabe’s chest.

70   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                   70

     Blackened trees protrude from the ground, evidence of a long
     passed fire that created the clearing.
     The air is thick with FOG that drifts between the burnt black
     trunks.
     Naru and Taabe stand in the middle of the glade. Their wrists
     are bound to each other’s with the burnt trunk of a tree
     between them. They’re ‘reverse hugging’ the trunk -- if one
     pulls forward, the other is pulled back into the tree.
     Naru speaks softly to her brother.
                         NARU
               Are you hurt badly?
     Taabe spits out a tooth.
                         TAABE
               They tried.
     Naru scans the burnt field. The entire glade is in a shallow
     depression set below the trappers’ camp. Naru scans for any
     sign of the Frenchmen but it looks as if she and Taabe have
     been set out alone.
     She surveys the ground. All around them TRAPS have been set
     out. There is one a yard from Naru's feet.
     Naru pulls forward a little. Taabe groans. She does it again.
     Again Taabe complains.
                         NARU
               Lean back. I think I can pull some
               slack out of the rope.
     Taabe doesn’t move. She tries again. He grunts.
                         TAABE
               Stop.
     Naru turns her head and peers through one eye over her
     shoulder toward her brother. Taabe does not face her.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
                    NARU
          If I can work slack...
                    TAABE
          No. If they see you moving, they’ll
          tighten the ropes. They don’t want
          their bait to get away.
Naru scans the surrounding forest again. The realization of
how screwed they are sinks in. All the same, she keeps
working the rope. Taabe grunts but knows he can’t stop her.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          Pâtsí, listen. Wasape, the others,
          they were all wrong about you. They
          said you can’t hunt because you’re
          a woman.
Naru turns toward him. Taabe keeps his face turned away.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          That is a lie they told because
          they were frightened by your
          strength. We both know you’re a
          better hunter than all of them.
Naru stops moving.
                    TAABE (CONT'D)
          You’re as good a hunter as me.
The faintest hint of a smile comes on his face.
                     TAABE (CONT'D)
          Almost as good anyway.
              (beat)
          That’s not what keeps you from
          greatness.
His smile vanishes.
                     TAABE (CONT'D)
          You know how I killed the lion?
          Your trap, the tree. You weakened
          it. When I fought it, it still had
          your lance in its back.
              (beat)
          You could have killed it. But you
          got scared and ran.
A pained look comes across Naru's face.




                                            avpgalaxy.net
                          TAABE (CONT'D)
               A great hunter can be scared, but
               always be more scared of running.
                   (beat)
               When I’m facing down my prey, I
               think of my feet as roots, binding
               me to the earth, making me stand my
               ground. A true hunter never runs
               from prey. Promise me you’ll
               remember that, pâtsí.
     Naru strains to look back at her brother. He turns to her as
     well. She nods.
                         NARU
               I promise. Warchief.
     Taabe nods his appreciation.

71   EXT. OBSERVATION POST ABOVE GLADE - DAWN                     71

     A trapper, SPYGLASS, lies prone on the ground overlooking the
     glade. Through a telescope he observes Naru and Taabe bound
     to the tree. A second trapper, RAMBERT, kneels beside him.
     Behind him a team of FOUR TRAPPERS sit on HORSES, waiting to
     gallop down into the glade. The horses are tense, sensing the
     impending danger. The horsemen cruelly attempt to still the
     animals; their spurs dig in, reins pull too tight.
                         RAMBERT
               We should not have brought the
               horses.
     Spyglass replies without taking his eye off the telescope.
                         SPYGLASS
               The horses would be fine if the men
               knew how to control them.
     He continues to scan the glade below. The horses WHINNY
     nervously.
                         SPYGLASS (CONT'D)
               Silence them or the creature won’t
               show.
     Spyglass scopes back over to Naru and Taabe. Sees nothing.
     Behind him Horseman #1 drops to the ground, dead.
     The four horses run down into the glade.


                                                avpgalaxy.net
     Spyglass and Rambert turn back. See the four horsemen dead.
     A PREDATOR FOOTPRINT forms in their POOLED BLOOD.
     The Predator, cloaked, takes a step toward Rambert.
     Spyglass’s eyes go wide.
                         SPYGLASS (CONT'D)
               Shit.

72   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                         72

     Taabe watches the horses appear out of the fog, racing
     through the glade.
     A SCREAM echoes through the clearing. Spyglass appears --
     running full speed toward Naru and Taabe. Spyglass looks back
     over his shoulder, his face a mask of fear.
     The Predator’s red sighting laser shines through the fog.
     Naru’s view of the trapper is blocked by the tree. She
     strains to see around it.
     THWWACK -- the Predator’s combistick lodges into a tree near
     Naru -- with Spyglass’s hat pierced on the end.

73   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      73

     The Predator enters the glade. A swirl of ASH adheres to his
     camouflage cloak. He attempts to brushes it away, realizes
     it’s futile. Gives up and de-cloaks.
     Predator POV -- he scans the glade in Predator vision. Sees
     Naru and Taabe bound to the tree -- pans over and, using his
     targeting system, locates his combistick in the tree.
     He walks through the glade to retrieve his weapon.
     The ground is covered in hidden BEAR TRAPS.
     Beyond the traps, lying concealed from view, SIX TRAPPERS
     watch the Predator walk across the burnt ground.
     He takes another step -- SNNAAP -- a trap slams shut on his
     ankle.
     Confused but unfazed, the Predator looks down at the trap.
                         TRAPPER #5
               Pull!

                                               avpgalaxy.net
     The six trappers, - spring up from their hiding holes -- they
     yank on CHAINS connected to the trap on the Predator’s foot.
     Tripped, the alien falls. His hand lands in a second TRAP
     which snaps shut.
     The trappers spring forward. Trapper #6 and Trapper #7 toss a
     rope NET to Trapper #8 and Trapper #9. They each hold a
     corner as they cover the Predator.

74   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                        74

     Naru peeks around the tree. Sees the trappers holding the
     Predator down.

75   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                     75

                         TRAPPER #5
               We have him!
     As soon as he gets the words out -- SNNICK -- the Predator’s
     blades extend -- cut through the rope net -- and drive
     through the jaw of Trapper #5.
     With Trapper #5 still impaled, the Predator swings his arm --
     crashes the blade down through Trapper #6’s chest.
     Trapper #7 shouts in terror -- the Predator pulls the metal
     SPHERE off his belt -- sailing through the air it expands
     revealing itself -- the Predator’s own metal NET!
     The device covers the trapper -- then contracts -- its metal
     web slicing through a LOG then dropping to the ground and
     forming a metal knot again.
     The Predator looks down at the trap on his foot. He reaches
     down to his belt, pulls the coiled, sectional device, a CUT-
     CLAMP. It unfurls.
     The Predator throws the clamp down at the trap and we see how
     it works -- the clamp cinches around the trap’s metal jaw
     like a snap bracelet, there’s a high-pitched whine as it self-
     tightens, then -- KRINNK -- the trap snaps in half and drops
     open.

76   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                        76

     Back at her tree, Naru looks down at the trap nearest her
     foot. She strains to hook her ankle over its chain, trying to
     bring the trap closer. But why?


                                               avpgalaxy.net
77   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      77

     Trapper #8 squares off against the Predator. He pulls a long
     KNIFE.
     The Predator looks at the man. Then to his own hand which is
     still encased in a trap. He smashes the trap against a tree --
     catches the heavy metal device as it opens -- throws it full
     force into Trapper #8’s face, killing him.
     Two bullets slam into the Predator’s back, drawing green
     blood and knocking him forward.
     He turns -- and unfolds his spiral metal SHIELD -- it unfurls
     on his arm like a Japanese fan forming a circle.
     As he turns to face three more trappers, their bullets
     bouncing off the alien metal shield.

78   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                         78

     Naru manages to hook her ankle around the chain leading to
     the bear trap. Her movement pulls hard on Taabe’s arms. He
     grunts in pain.
                         TAABE
               What are you doing?
     Naru's voice is strained by the effort she’s putting in to
     drawing the trap closer.
                         NARU
               Do you remember the flood when we
               were young?
     Taabe shifts as she pulls the trap closer.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               The water came fast. The river
               swept everything downstream.
     She reaches farther.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               I saw a beaver with it’s leg pinned
               between two rocks.

79   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      79

     Raphael hides behind a tree, reloading his flintlock PISTOL
     as the Predator advances on the other trappers.


                                                  avpgalaxy.net
The Predator unfolds his shield. Snaps out his wrist blades.
Trapper #9 advances wielding his musket like a club. The
Predator cuts right through him -- Trapper #10 charges -- the
Predator back hands him -- sending Trapper #10 crashing hard
into a tree.
Raphael fires into the Predator’s back.
He turns -- throws a cut clamp -- it hits Raphael in the
thigh -- severing his leg.




                                          avpgalaxy.net
     Trapper #11 swings his musket at the Predator -- he closes
     his hand around Trapper #11’s throat -- chokes him against a
     tree.
     As Trapper #11 reaches for a knife in his boot, Trapper #12
     attacks from the Predator’s side -- swings a HATCHET down --
     hits the Predator’s gauntlet -- the Predator grabs the
     HATCHET -- spins it end over end -- catches it by the handle -
     - slams it into Trapper #12.
     Still being choked, Trapper #11 grabs his knife -- but before
     he can use it the Predator unfurls his folding shield --
     decapitating Trapper #11.
     Trapper #13 approaches from behind, loading his MUSKET -- he
     raises the weapon and fires, point blank, into the Predator’s
     face -- the bullet ricochets off the Predator’s mask and
     slams back through Trapper #13’s skull.

80   EXT. OTHER SIDE OF THE BURNT GLADE - DAWN                    80

     A line of TRAPPERS aim their muskets at the Predator. Big
     Beard stands among them.
                         BIG BEARD
               Fire!
                         WAX MUSTACHE
               We’ll hit the others!?
                         BIG BEARD
               FIRE!!!

81   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                         81

     A hail of bullets sail past Naru -- piercing the trees around
     her and striking the trunk she and Taabe are bound to.

82   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      82

     The Predator turns -- uses his shield to block the volley of
     shots coming from the other side of the glade.

83   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                         83

     She looks down. Finally has the trap close enough that she
     can use it.
                         NARU
               The water kept rising.

                                                 avpgalaxy.net
Naru bends down.
                    NARU (CONT'D)
          The beaver knew it would drown.
She picks up a rock. Holds it over the trap.
                    NARU (CONT'D)
          So it chewed off its own leg.
Taabe’s eyes widen as Naru lowers their bound wrists toward
the trap.
                      TAABE
          No. Wait.
                    NARU
          It was worth it for the beaver to
          lose its leg to be free.
                      TAABE
          Naru!
She drops the rock onto the trap’s pressure plate.
SNAAAP!
Taabe looks down. The trap’s metal jaws are clamped into the
rope that binds their wrists. Naru pulls against the trap’s
jagged edge -- the rope splits, freeing them.
She moves around to the same side of the tree and looks at
her brother, smiling.
                    NARU
          I’m smarter than a beaver.
Taabe smiles back. Working together they quickly unbind their
other wrists.




                                            avpgalaxy.net
84   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      84

     The Predator leaps from tree to tree, flying through the
     burnt glade.
     He passes Naru and Taabe as they stand, finally able to free
     themselves from the tree.

85   EXT. BURNT GLADE, NARU'S TREE - DAWN                         85

     Taabe looks to the far side of the glade where the horses
     ran.
                         TAABE
               I need a horse.
     Naru nods. Looks up at the trappers’ camp.
                         NARU
               I’ll get Sarii.
     Taabe nods. They head off in opposite directions.




                                                  avpgalaxy.net
86   EXT. BURNT GLADE - DAWN                                      86

     The trappers fire up into the trees as the Predator sails by
     overhead.
     They stand in a cluster, aiming and missing.
     An ELECTRONIC BEEPING draws their attention.
     Trapper #14 turns to find the source of the strange sound.
     The Predator’s gauntlet lies in the dirt at their feet.
     Its display counting down in an strange glyph.
     It reaches zero.
     The gauntlet opens.
     Three sharp DISKS rise up out of the device.
     They spin, hovering at neck height.

87   EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - DAY                                87

     From above the glade we see LASERS cut through the fog -- the
     Predator’s gauntlet weapon dispatching the trappers.
     Naru steps into the camp.
     She spots her satchel near a crate by the campfire. Moving
     closer, she stays hidden.
     The remaining trappers peer nervously toward the scene of the
     fight.
                         TRAPPER #17
               Do they need our help?
     Trapper #15 shakes his head.
                         TRAPPER #18
               They’re beyond our help. I say we
               go.
     Trapper #14 looks back toward the battle. Nods agreement.
                         TRAPPER #17
               What about the dog?
                         TRAPPER #18
               I like dog. It tastes better than
               beaver.

                                               avpgalaxy.net
      Trapper #17 smiles and pulls his KNIFE. Walks toward Sarii.
      Naru jumps out. In one move, she scoops up a small PELT -
      reaches into the fire with it -- throws a handful of embers
      into the man’s face.
      As he bellows in pain she grabs his arm, redirects his wrist -
      - shoves the knife into his thigh. He drops.
      Trapper #18 draws his knife. Naru looks at her satchel on the
      crate right behind him.
      She charges -- uses the pelt to grab the hot PAN out of the
      fire -- slams it into Trapper #18. He drops but begins to
      rise again.
      A BULLET blasts into a tree near Naru.
      Trapper #19 quickly reloads.
      Naru pulls her tomahawk out of her satchel -- dispatches
      Trapper #18 just as he is about to stab her -- throws the
      tomahawk into Trapper #19 just in time -- he fires upward as
      he drops dead.
      Trapper #17 pulls his knife from his thigh, moves toward
      Naru.
      Naru yanks her tomahawk back -- but it comes back too fast,
      she fails to catch it.
      Trapper #17 gives an evil grin, charges -- Naru grabs Trapper
      #18’s knife -- throws it into Trapper #17’s other thigh -- he
      leans forward -- Naru dives between his legs, grabbing the
      knife back.
      Trapper #17 spins to face her -- Naru stabs through his hand -
      - he drops his knife -- she catches it and stabs him in the
      face.
      Naru looks around. She’s alone now. She walks to Sarii. Cuts
      him free. The dog licks her face. She points -- TiCh-TiCh.
                          NARU
                Find Taabe.
      Sarii runs off, following her order.

87A   EXT. BURNT GLADE - SAME87A 87A                             87A

      Dead trappers lay strewn about the clearing floor.



                                                avpgalaxy.net
      The Predator is sitting propped up against a tree. He opens
      his rucksack. Removes a CYLINDRICAL container. Presses the
      container against a bullet hole in his chest. A liquid alloy
      spreads out like liquid mercury -- sealing the wound.

87B   EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - DAY                                87B

      Naru looks at the trappers’ gear. She empties a canteen of
      water onto her wounded leg. Drinks a second one down in a few
      gulps. She spots a coil of rope. Shoves it into her bag.
      She creeps farther into the camp. Surveys the scene, she
      takes a breath.
      CLICK -- a gun is cocked behind her.
      Without looking, in one perfectly fluid move, Naru yanks her
      tomahawk back into her hand, spins and swings it to slice
      into her assailant -- Raphael.
      But the weakened man instantly drops his flintlock PISTOL,
      and raises his hands in surrender.
      Naru hesitates. She keeps the hatchet back, ready to strike,
      and surveys the man. He’s kneeling. Pale from the blood loss
      caused by his lost leg.
      He drops to the ground, unable to even kneel.
                           RAPHAEL
                Help me.
      Naru stares at the man. Unmoved.
                          RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
                Please. Water. Please.
      Naru eyes the flintlock PISTOL. Raphael sees what she’s
      looking at.
                          RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
                Help me and I’ll show you how to
                use it.
      Naru grabs a canteen and moves to Raphael. She hands it to
      him and as he drinks she examines his leg.
      She ties a length of rope around his thigh just above where
      it was severed. He groans as she tightens the tourniquet.
      Naru takes the canteen from Raphael. Pouring water over the
      wound she sees that the Predator’s cut-clamp is still
      attached -- locked on the edge of his bone.

                                                   avpgalaxy.net
Naru reaches out and touches the device. Raphael winces. She
flips a lever -- the clamp pops open.
Naru studies the clamp. She cleans it with more water and
puts it in her satchel.
Raphael looks at her pleadingly and she gives him back the
canteen. He takes a huge swallow. Then points to Naru's
medicine pouch.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          You have medicine.
Naru stares back at him with cold eyes.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          Please.
Naru slowly removes her medicine pouch. She looks at
Raphael’s leg, then separates out a handful of the same
orange flower petals she gave Puhi.
She mixes them with the mushrooms from the pouch at her
waist, then holds the medicine out to Raphael who reaches for
it eagerly with his sweaty hand. Naru pulls her hand back.
She pulls the flintlock out of Raphael’s belt.
Raphael nods and gestures for her to hand it to him.
Naru holds the edge of her tomahawk to his throat and stands
close.
As she watches, Raphael pulls a POWDER HORN from his belt.
He pours powder from the horn into the pistol, primes the
flint with a few grains, drops a ball of shot down the
barrel, uses the ramrod to tamp it down. Then he hands the
pistol and the horn to Naru.
He touches the hammer.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          Pull that back and it will fire.
Naru cocks the hammer. As she examines the weapon we catch a
glimpse of the engraving on its side: “Raphael Adolini 1715.”
Raphael looks down at his leg. He’s woozy.
                    RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
          Please.
Naru looks at him. Considers. She hands him the medicine.
Raphael swallows it eagerly.

                                             avpgalaxy.net
     For a beat he’s still.
     Then it hits like wave crashing -- an intense spasm of
     frantic convulsions, Raphael slams off the dirt floor -- then
     he lies still.
     After a moment his eyes pop open and he stares at Naru. He’s
     shivering frantically. His teeth chattering.
     Naru hears a NOISE in the trees. Something big moving. She
     gets up. Raphael looks at her with pleading eyes.
                         RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
               Don’t leave me here.
     Naru backs away holding his pistol.
                         RAPHAEL (CONT'D)
               Wait. Please. Don’t leave me.
     But Naru keeps moving.

88   SCENE 88 HAS BECOME SCENE 87A                                88

89   EXT. EDGE OF TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME                           89

     Naru hides behind the trunk of a huge tree. She examines the
     pistol and the powder horn. Takes a deep breath. Runs toward
     the next tree, heading back to the clearing.
     Making it, she stops. Looks down at the wounds on her leg
     from the trap. They’re bleeding again.

90   EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME                               90

     The Predator walks into the staging area. Looks at the
     trappers’ gear and the empty canteens. He moves on, following
     a long BLOOD TRAIL.

91   EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME                               91

     Naru peers back into the camp. Watches the Predator
     exploring.
     Behind him, Raphael, terrified, drags himself toward the tree
     line.
     The Predator hears a noise. He turns. Raphael holds still.



                                               avpgalaxy.net
92   EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME                               92

     The Predator walks toward where Raphael cowers, shivering and
     terrified.
     The Predator gets closer. And closer.
     Then walks right by him -- it’s as if he can’t see the man.

93   EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME                               93

     Naru watches the Predator. He stops near Raphael, she looks
     confused. Why isn’t he killing the trapper?
     Seeing Raphael shivering against the cold -- Naru figures it
     out -- the medicine she gave him has rendered Raphael
     invisible to the Predator.
     She opens her pouch and looks at the orange flower petals,
     then back at the Predator, he’s standing right next to the
     trapper yet unable to see him!

94   EXT. FUR TRAPPERS’ CAMP - SAME                               94

     Delirious with terror, Raphael holds still.
     The alien takes a step back. Examines a pool of blood on the
     ground right by Raphael.
     He takes another step -- his foot comes down on Raphael’s
     knee -- the man yells out in pain.
     The Predator tilts his head -- confused.
     He snaps out his wrist blades. Puts them through Raphael’s
     skull.

95   EXT. TREES BY THE GLADE - SAME                               95

     Naru slowly backs away. She hears a rustling.
     The Predator hears it too. He scans the woods. Sees a blur of
     movement. Aims his crossbow.
     He walks back toward the burnt glade. Scanning.
     Still can’t get a lock on his target.
     Then suddenly, Sarii charges out of the forest, barking.
     The Predator turns. Aims his lasers at the dog. Fires.

                                                avpgalaxy.net
As the arrows launch -- the thunderous sound of HOOVES -
Taabe charges into the glade on horseback -- SMAAKK -- hits
the side of the Predator’s head with the combistick -- a
direct blow -- Mark McGwire crushing a fastball.
The Predator’s helmet is knocked off -- it falls to the dirt.
With the helmet on the ground, its lasers, the target
guidance system -- now point away from Sarii.
Naru follows the line of the three red lasers -- they’re now
aimed at the base of a nearby tree.
She watches closely as the Predator’s arrows sail around,
adjusting their aim to the new target point, then slam
harmlessly into the base of the tree.
As they hit, Sarii makes it through the clearing.
Naru studies the Predator’s arrows lodged in the tree -- the
lasers from his helmet still shine on the aim points.
Naru looks up. Taabe steers the horse into the camp -- grabs
his bow and quiver -- turns the horse back -- rides straight
at the Predator, firing.
His aim is true -- but the arrows bounce off of the
Predator’s shield -- as Taabe nears, he drops his bow --
lifts the combistick -- prepares to smash the alien again.
The hooves stomp -- Taabe is almost to him -- at the last
second, he leaps off the horse, drives the combistick,
through the Predator’s shoulder.
The alien lets out an angry snarl, grabs the front half of
the combistick, allows the second half to drop, catches it
and moves in, enticed by the prospect of hand-to-hand combat.
As the two circle, the fight is glaringly one-sided -- but
there’s a fearsome look of determination on Taabe’s face.
They close and begin to battle, parrying back and forth.
As Taabe attacks, the Predator cloaks.
Taabe holds his bow, arrow nocked, ready to fire. He scans
for the Predator.
Naru approaches. She shoves the flintlock pistol back in her
belt. Draws her tomahawk as she walks to Taabe.
                      NARU
          Let’s go.


                                          avpgalaxy.net
Taabe continues to search for his foe.
                    TAABE
          No, I’ve got this, Naru.
Naru takes a step closer. Shakes her head.
                     NARU
          Not here. Here it has strength.
              (beat)
          We need to go where we’re stronger.
Taabe looks at his sister. Realizes she’s right.
He lowers his bow -- as the blades from the Predator’s
gauntlet pierce through his body.
Naru stares at her brother in horror.
She raises her tomahawk.
Steps in to fight.
The Predator turns to face her.
Taabe grabs the skull off the Predator’s belt -- drives the
fangs into the alien’s back.
The Predator turns back to Taabe.
Taabe looks at his sister.
                     TAABE
          Go!
The Predator kills Taabe.
Then turns back to Naru.
But she’s gone.




                                             avpgalaxy.net
95A   EXT. FOREST HILL - DAY                                    95A


      Naru runs down the hill.
      She moves as fast as she can on her wounded leg. The effort
      to keep going is painful. She’s drenched in perspiration.




                                                avpgalaxy.net
96   EXT. DEEP FOREST STREAM - DAY                                96

     Naru runs as fast as she can on her wounded leg. The effort
     to keep moving is painful. She’s drenched in perspiration.
     She crosses the stream then traverses the opposing bank which
     is covered in tangled tree roots.
     As she climbs up the ridge her injured leg gives out. Naru
     crashes to the ground. And lies there.
     Sarii pops out of the woods behind her. He runs through the
     stream to Naru and licks her face. Naru pushes herself up and
     sits.
     Naru pulls her leg up toward her body and checks her wounds.
     Reaching down toward the stream she tears out a handful of
     wet moss.
     She crawls toward a deep pocket where the tree’s root
     structure bends over the bank of the stream -- a dark nook,
     concealed from view.
     Naru nestles herself inside, folding her body to fit in the
     natural alcove. Sarii climbs in after her.
     She pulls her pouch and removes some herbs.
     Naru mixes the other herbs in with the moss and packs the
     wounds on her leg. It’s painful work but she steadies her
     hands. Soldiers through.
     When she’s done she leans back in the tree. Rests.

97   EXT. NARU’S CAMP - DUSK                                      97

     Aruka stands outside alone. She’s working a HIDE; scraping
     and stretching the animal skin.
     The sound of HOOVES galloping.
     Tabu and another SCOUT ride up to the camp. Aruka stares as
     they hop off their HORSES.
     Tabu looks to the scout. Gestures with his head toward
     Kehetu’s tipi and the man heads in that direction.
     Aruka watches intently as Tabu approaches her, He’s nervous.
                          ARUKA
               Tell me.


                                               avpgalaxy.net
                         TABU
               There was a large battle in the
               glade. Many dead men. Most were
               white.
                   (holds a painful beat)
               But Taabe was among them.
     Aruka’s face floods with grief. She holds it back. Steadies
     herself. Soldiers through.
                         ARUKA
               Naru?
     Tabu shakes his head.
                         TABU
               We’ve found nothing yet.

98   EXT. DEEP FOREST STREAM - DUSK                              98

     Naru rests in the tree. She hears FOOTSTEPS approaching.
     Shifts in the nook. Pulls the flintlock pistol and peers out
     with one eye.
     The footsteps get closer. Big Beard steps into view. He looks
     nervous, rattled. Keeps looking back over his shoulder.
     He walks down to the bank of the stream. Stops. Bends to wash
     his face in the water. Begins to fill his leather CANTEEN.
     Naru aims the pistol at his head. Holds for a beat. Thinking.
     She looks at Sari. Leans down close to the dog.
                         NARU
               Home, Sarii, now.
     She signals -- TiCh-TiCh -- But Sarii doesn’t move. Naru
     glares at him.
                         NARU (CONT'D)
               I do this alone.
     Sarii stares at her another beat. Then follows Naru’s order.
     Naru puts the flintlock pistol in her belt. Pulls her
     medicine pouch. Opening it, she sorts out the bright orange
     flower petals that we saw her give Puhi and Raphael earlier.
     She looks at the orange petals in her palm. It’s a huge dose.
     Naru mixes in the mushrooms. Then swallows it all.


                                                 avpgalaxy.net
     Her muscles instantly convulse. Gritting her teeth, Naru
     reaches into her satchel and pulls something out.
     As Naru returns her focus to Big Beard standing in the stream
     we see what she’s holding -- the Predator’s cut clamp unfurls
     in her hand.

99   EXT. CLEARING IN THE WOODS - NIGHT                           99

     Snow drifts down from above.
     Big Beard is lying on the ground on his back. Sweat on his
     forehead glistens in the light of a large BONFIRE burning
     nearby.
     A RAT scurries by. Then another.
     The big man’s eyes pops open. He looks down at his leg -- the
     lower half of the limb is gone -- three RATS gnaw at the
     savage wound. With a SCREAM he slaps them away.
     He draws his leg up. Examines the damage. Charred flesh marks
     where the end of his stump has been cauterized.
     He rolls over. HOWLS in pain. Sees his canteen and the rest
     of his gear lying on the ground several yards away. Beyond
     the small pile of his possessions is his musket.
     Grunting in fury, he crawls quickly toward the weapon.
     Naru steps out of the woods. She’s holding Big Beard’s boot.
     The trapper crawls faster. He’s furious. Spit flies from his
     lips as he shouts.
                         BIG BEARD
               Idiot savage.
     Naru walks calmly.
     Racing, he drags himself toward his gun.
                         BIG BEARD (CONT'D)
               You are going to die.
     Naru shakes her head. Tosses his boot into the fire.
                         NARU
               You think I’m stupid.
     Shivering, her teeth chatter. But she walks with purpose
     moving toward the fire.


                                                avpgalaxy.net
                          NARU (CONT'D)
                But your trap didn’t work.
      The trapper is almost to his musket.
      Naru stands near the flames. But because of the medicine the
      skin on her arms is still covered in goosebumps.
                          NARU (CONT'D)
                It only hunts the hunter.

100   EXT. WOODS, PREDATOR POV - SAME                           100

      In Predator vision the alien surveys the scene. The bonfire
      glows bright in his display.
      He sees Big Beard aiming his musket in his direction.
      But he does not see Naru!
      Just as with Raphael, the medicine has rendered her
      invisible.

101   EXT. CLEARING IN THE WOODS - NIGHT                        101

      Big Beard pulls the trigger. An empty click.
      He quickly examines the weapon.
      He hears the thud of heavy FOOTFALLS.
      He turns, facing the noise, holding his useless weapon.
      Naru stands close by. Holding still. Shivering as the snow
      falls around her.
      Lying in wait.
      The Predator uncloaks. Big Beard’s eyes go wide in terror.
      The Predator extends his combistick -- spins it in his hands,
      preparing to deal the death blow with a flourish -- Naru is
      so close to him the weapon clips her hair as he spins it --
      yet the Predator does not see her.
      Naru’s cut hair drifts to the ground -- as Big Beard’s head
      and body separate -- severed by the Predator.
      The alien leans down to examine Big Beard’s skull.
      As he bends down we see Naru -- standing behind him -- aiming
      the flintlock pistol right at the back of Predator’s head.

                                                avpgalaxy.net
      As the Predator stands -- KRAACK -- Naru fires.
      Shoved forward by the shot -- the Predator’s helmet flies
      off.
      Naru rushes out -- grabs the helmet -- puts it in her bag as
      she dashes into the woods.
      The Predator stands. Feels the back of his head where the
      bullet grazed his thick skull. Sees his green blood glowing
      in his palms. ROARS!

102   OMITTED                                                     102




                                                avpgalaxy.net
103   EXT. FOREST FLOOR - NIGHT                                   103

      The Predator scans the forest floor in the direction Naru
      continued on. Spots a blood trail.
      The Predator moves on, following the trail. It leads around a
      bend in the path.
      A thick growth of plants. The Predator pushes through.

104   EXT. CLEARING INSIDE THE NATURAL HEDGE - NIGHT              104

      Pausing, he surveys the area ahead. Sees something odd on the
      ground. He moves toward it.
      And now we see where Naru has led him -- the moss above the
      sinkhole.
      In the center of the moss is Big Beard’s leg.

      The Predator studies the severed limb from afar.
      But the Predator is cagey. He stops at the edge, peers down,
      recognizing what may be a trap.

105   EXT. TREE - NIGHT                                           105

      Up on a branch, Naru looks down at the Predator’s back. Waits
      for him to step forward. He doesn’t. So she leaps down --

106   EXT. CLEARING INSIDE THE NATURAL HEDGE - CONTINUOUS         106

      Naru’s crashes down on to the Predator’s back -- the alien
      staggers forward -- but just manages to avoid stepping into
      the mud pit!
      Naru slams to the ground behind him.
      As the Predator turns she draws her tomahawk --
      They battle hand-to-hand.




                                                avpgalaxy.net
The Predator using his strength and experience.
Naru using her wit and sheer force of will.
Along with everything she’s learned watching the Predator.
His weapons and techniques.
Sarii returns from the woods to help.
The dog’s ferocious loyalty allows Naru an important moment
in the battle.
But then he is endangered.
And she must help.
During the fight, Naru leads the Predator into position in
the pit.
He sinks. Deeper and deeper.
Then stops, waist deep.
Unfazed, the Predator draws his crossbolt.
Aims it dead at Naru. The weapon activates -- its sharp,
lethal blades shine in the light.
Naru stares right into the weapon. One pull of the trigger
and she’s dead.
But Naru does not move. She holds her ground. Naru speaks
quietly to herself.
                    NARU
          My feet are roots.
Naru glares defiantly down the barrel of the alien weapon.
The Predator fires. The bolts sail out toward Naru.
But Naru doesn’t flinch.
She stares the Predator dead in the eye. Then looks to his
side.
There, propped between two rocks -- his helmet -- the
Predator is right in position where she wanted him.
The red laser sights are pointing directly at him -- Naru set
him up -- used his own targeting system against him.



                                             avpgalaxy.net
      The arrows sail up in a loop -- they pass Naru -- and whip
      back down -- where they slam home -- into the Predator.
      The Predator gasps. Chokes. Coughs green blood out of his
      pierced lungs.
      Falls backward.
      Dead.
      Naru stands. Retrieves her tomahawk.
      Walks to the Predator.
      Grabs a handful of dreadlocks -- pulls his head back exposing
      his neck -- lifts the hatchet.
      As she brings the weapon down to strike we --
                                                           CUT TO:

107   INT. WARCHIEF KEHETU’S TIPI - MORNING                       107

      Kehetu sits by the fire. Sumu is beside him holding his hand.
      The old warchief coughs. He struggles to get up and walk to
      the stew pot. It’s difficult. His old knees are tired.
      Sumu helps him sit back down. Brings him the stew.
      She looks at her husband. It pains her to say this. But she
      has to.
                          SUMU
                We will need a new warchief.
      Kehetu looks into his wife’s face. Considers the truth of her
      words.
      After a beat the flap of the tipi opens. The young Comanche
      girl enters.
      She stares at the adults for a beat.
      Then looks at Kehetu.
                          GIRL
                Come and see.
      She rushes back out of the tipi. The others follow.




                                                avpgalaxy.net
108   EXT. NARU'S CAMP - DAY                                    108

      Sumu and the Elders stare out into the tall grass. The rest
      of the tribe quickly gathers behind them.
      Sumu gestures and a young Comanche MAN goes into her tipi. He
      returns a moment later helping Kehetu along. Aruka makes her
      way up to join them. She has a fresh CUT LINE on her
      shoulder.
      As Kehetu is led to the front of the crowd he squints into
      the distance.
      A lone figure moves through the tall grass toward them.
      (page 84A)




                                                avpgalaxy.net
It’s Naru. Her body is soaked in green blood.
Her face is painted in her own style using the Predator’s
fluorescent green blood.
The Comanche in the camp look on in awe as Naru, with Sarii
at her side, walks toward them.
Aruka stares in stunned silence. As Naru gets close, she
rushes to her.
They embrace. Each has a fresh CUT LINE on their shoulder.
The others gape at what Naru's holding. Marveling at her
accomplishment as a hunter.
They stare in fascination at the head of the Predator.
Naru's prey.
Naru walks to Kehetu. She lays the alien’s head at his feet.
The old warchief looks at the Predator’s face.
Naru pulls the flintlock pistol from her belt. Hands it to
Kehetu. He regards the foreign weapon, then sets it down.
Then he turns back to Naru, studying her.
                    NARU
          There’s danger nearby. We should
          move to more easily protected
          ground.
The old warchief stares at her. Sees something he missed
before.
Mirroring his actions when Taabe returned with the mountain
lion, Kehetu puts his hands on Naru's shoulders. Stares
deeply into her eyes.
Kehetu hobbles back to his tipi. The crowd watches, silent
now.
The warchief returns. He’s carrying the carved staff he gave
to Taabe. He leans forward. Takes Naru by the hands. He
presses the staff into her palms. Walks back to his tipi.
Naru looks into the crowd. But unlike Taabe, she’s not
basking in the glory of adulation. Naru's expression is
pensive as she contemplates the enormity of the battles to
come.




                                             avpgalaxy.net
Naru looks down at the staff. Then she looks to her mother.
Aruka looks back, her face a mix of sadness, fear, pride, and
then reverence.
Naru looks into the crowd. She spots the face of the little
Comanche girl. She’s standing in the grass, holding a bag for
collecting wood.
The girl sets her bag down.
Looks up with pride.
Smiles at the new warchief.


                              THE END




                                          avpgalaxy.net
